# Kris Foss - M4 Portfolio
## Individual

### Areas of Emphasis

It took me a little while but I really do love JavaScript.  I really wanted to get to a point where I could say I write JavaScript fluently.  I don't know if I can stand up for myself and say really do write JS at an 8/10 level.  That was a gross overstatement.  But my feedback all through turing has been that I'm not confident enough in my code.  I went for it.  I've been looking at front end jobs mostly and hoping I can use the things I love doing and continue to learn and grow as a developer.  I'm not at all the same as I was when I began and I am so grateful I've had this experience.  I would put this blurb from my blog as what I took from this module and the experience on a whole.  [Code School For Wizards Start To Finish](http://codeschoolforwizardsstarttofinish.blogspot.com/2016/07/its-bright-out-here-in-sunshine-open.html)

"Dear Internet,
Somewhere in the blur that was mod 3 was the month of June, the bulk of July, oh and some of May.  I have emerged from my under-rested, hyper focused programming trenches to find myself 2.5 weeks away from finishing the web development program.  In my frothy wake lies one of the hardest but most rewarding academic pursuits of my life.  And the knowledge cargo collected in this vessel I've been riding through the squally seas is actually worth something.  Amazingly enough it includes the ability to apply for jobs as a Software "Engineer".  I am transformed.  

While hammering away on my final project yesterday, slumped into a functional coding fetal position, someone asked me how I made it through to the finish.  Good question.  For me it was a matter of taking it one bite at a time.  Its easy to get overwhelmed by the massive pile of information, ambiguity, and expectations on a whole.  But every step is crafted by quality educators who walk you up the building block stairs until you turn around to realize they're not holding on the the back of your bike anymore.  You're riding all by yourself, slinging code and making things that work.  You are a programmer…  I am a programmer.  It is exhilarating. "

### End of Module Assessment

(Notes & scores from your assessment rubric)
Still pending.  Gitlab happened.  
[repo](https://github.com/kristindiannefoss/thought_box)
[deployed](http://box-of-thoughts-and-things.herokuapp.com/)

### Work

#### Scale Up

* [GitHub URL for app](https://github.com/kristindiannefoss/snap_me_up)
* [GitHub URL for gem](https://github.com/kristindiannefoss/omniauth_teamsnap)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/lesson_plans/blob/master/ruby_04-apis_and_scalability/independent_study_project.markdown)

This is a project I started to explore an api for a company I was interested in, TeamSnap. It was a format of api I was unfamiliar with, JSON collection and it took some poking before I was able to get what I wanted back. I had only touched on Oauth in projects and had used the Omniauth Gem for authorizing through another web application. I found the oauth process to be confusing and overly complicated and I wanted to see what was involved in creating a usable gem to authorize through TeamSnap. The work-in-progress gem code is [here](github.com/kristindiannefoss/omniauth_teamsnap.git).

I played with materialize templates and components, (I've only used bootstrap or hand-rolled css/html in the past), so it's a bit of a cluster, but the project is based on exploring something you were interested in. While digging through the user site I came across some features I would like to tweak for a different UI, so I have been working on building a prototype.

## Notes From Meeka

### Blog(s)

I deeply enjoy reading your blog posts.

`I've had classes on ajax but it's gone right over my head previously, since my head was so very full of other information.` is a delightful line

`In my frothy wake lies one of the hardest but most rewarding academic pursuits of my life.` should be a part of our marketing material from here out out.

`While hammering away on my final project yesterday, slumped into a functional coding fetal position, someone asked me how I made it through to the finish. Good question.` - Yes, yes, yes

- I might have missed it - but make sure to link to the open source repo in your blog post on the gem.

### General

- I'd recommend adding some install instructions and deets to the README of the gem - as well as a link to the blog post that explains its creation!

I'm glad you took the emotional risk of pushing yourself to do something on your own in this project - work with Josh Cheek - put yourself out there in stand ups and in PR reviews. I think you accomplished a ton and did great work. I think, at Turing, when you take your time learning topics, you can start to feel like you're not as good as a software developer or employable person as people who seem to rush through lessons and projects. This project, among many others, absolutely proves that this is not the case.

You did an excellent job with articulating what you were working on in stand ups. As noted above, I really enjoy how you can speak to your experiences with humor, honesty, and lines like `functional coding fetal position`. I think this will really serve you well.  

The PR review process is definitely difficult to go through when you're spiking/researching. I think it's also difficult to go through when you are not somehow convinced that your opinions on code are `important` regardless of knowing or not knowing the context of the code. If this situation comes up again, I'd recommend just picking one project/part of the code base other than your own to try and understand relatively well and only do PR review on that project/topic.

Code is usually only put up for PR review, to be merged into master, when you consider it well refactored and totally clean. The original plan of the scale up was to basically tie people to the requirement that code written, even if it takes longer, should be as researched and refactored as possible. I think there's nothing wrong with the decision to pivot to using the project as a place to stretch and learn instead - but I can definitely understand why the PR reviews in that context would be a bad match. I hope it doesn't color your view of PR review in general!

## Score

150/150

### Blog Post (40 Points)  
  * 40: Developer has >= 2 blog posts documenting something they have worked on for their independent study or has one in depth blog post.

### Team Participation (40 points)

  * 40: Developer participated daily in stand ups with the group (remote or in person). Developer was able to speak to their work in stand ups in a way that was clear and informative. Developer was involved in pull request reviews.

### Hourly Work (30 points)

  * 30: Developer logged 7 to 8 hours per working day. Developer can speak to work completed during those hours.

### Risk Taking and Creativity (40 points)

  Instructor/Developer will select one feature in the project to review for this section of the rubric.

  * 40: Developers pushed themselves and their team by taking risks which is demonstrated by a delivered feature or well documented spike. Developers explored concepts and technologies outside the scope of the curriculum.


## Team

### Projects

#### Trolly Puzzleh

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/Claudia108/puzzlenary)
* [Deployed](claudia108.github.io/puzzlenary/ Repo: github.com/kristindiannefoss/puzzlenary)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/lesson_plans/blob/master/ruby_04-apis_and_scalability/gametime_project.markdown)

Puzzlenary aka Trolly Poozleh

Development Team: Claudia Kiesenhofer, Kris Foss, and Alireza Andersen

Trolly Poozleh is a concept our team created based on the classic game whack-a-mole and our team member's collective love of puzzles. We created it to learn more about JavaScript and node.js. The object of the game is to clear all off the pictures of the puzzle in each level by clicking the green squares. Each level has more tiles than the previous level and more forbidden colors that take away lives. Each level has three lives and you must clear the puzzle before you lose all three lives.

Total Score: 300/300
* First check in 50/50 evaluated by Jhun
* Second Check in 50/50 evaluated by Brenna
* Third Checkin 55/50 evaluated by Meeka
* Final Eval 145/150 evaluated by Jhun

## Community

### Giving Feedback

To Claudia:
"I have had the pleasure of working with Claudia on two projects.  The first was by random assignment and the second because I was blessed with her choosing to work with me and I was so excited.  I was excited both because she is such an incredible person to be around, and because coding with her is such an enjoyable and rewarding process.  Two of my best group project experiences have been alongside Claudia, both of them were times where I felt like I learned the most and had the most inclusive team dynamic.  Claudia is meticulous and relentless in her process of TDD and her code quality is pristine.  I love to experience the joy she feels from solving complex problems and getting successful testing runs.  It’s infectious.  She’s very self aware and is constantly learning and growing.  She sees the bigger picture and is very positive and compassionate.  She’s been the voice of reason and empathy for me when things have been hard.  She’s a very dear friend and a wonderful human being.  I look forward to seeing what she does with her skills and I know she would be an asset to any team.  
Love you!  Will miss you much, you’re in my heart forever.  Stay in touch!"

To Ali:
"I remember the first time I met Ali, I felt like he was in my corner from the start.  He’s been a stand up guy for me, a friend, and a source of sanity in an insane seven months, basically my Turing family.  He is incredibly generous in so many ways.  There have been times when I know he is stretched thin and he has still dropped everything to help others.  His stamina and ability to work through tough spikes in the academic program, in addition to working at a paying job, has been inspirational.  I haven’t heard of a single other student being successful at this and I know for working through my first month at school what a crunch this can be.  I’ve never seen him intimidated or afraid to dive into a new concept and he puts in the time to really research something until he understands it.  It was a lot of fun working with Ali for game time, and although we had some passionate debates between the three of us, we were able to come out with some pretty stellar code we could all be proud of, a finished product that did what we set our minds to, and a mutual appreciation and respect for one another.  Ali believes strongly in what he is doing and produces some very good work.  I’m so glad I had the chance to be in his cohort and he is someone I hope to call a friend for life.  Much love to you.  Thank you for you all your friendship and support!"

To Alex:
"I was so excited to have Alex in our cohort.  He was incredibly welcoming to me when I first started and I was really looking forward to coding with him.  I had seen what he was doing with some pretty advanced google permissions and I was impressed.  Alex is incredibly dedicated and mature, I often completely forget he’s so much younger than I am because he does not present that way.  He has the real world experience and the focus to know how to apply himself, 100%.  He’s a very talented programmer who can meet challenges head on and excel.  In addition to his technical chops, he’s also a genuine, solid person who really comes through, which has meant a lot.   I am proud to be friends with Alex.  He’s someone I would actively seek out to have on my team and in my corner.  He stepped up when I was pretty lost on some concepts and gave his time, patiently explaining in a way that made sense.  He really understands the code and the different languages that have been thrown at us.  I know how passionate he is about important issues in the community and I know he will do big things and have real impact.  Much love for you Alex, can’t wait to see what you do!"


### Being a Community Member

"I have seen huge strides with Kris and her level of programming. You can tell that with each piece of code she writes, passion follows. Kris has been a huge support line for me while attending school. Her calm demeanor and positive vibe was a huge help for the days that I was stressed out with school and work. Working with Kris for Game Time was great, her passion in UX experience can be seen within all of her projects. She has taken her skill of interior design and has been able to create extremely amazing programs with fantastic visual effects. Her passion in ensuring client side presentation is seen within all of her work.  I am super confident that Kris will end up leading the industry with her amazing side and visual attention to detail. I look forward to one day being able to create such visually pleasant apps like Kris does. Look out for this Coder she will be set new levels for UX standards!" -Alireza Andersen

"Feedback for you: Kris is a good listener to every teammates ideas and concerns.  She has a strong sense of what the group needs at a given situation to be the most productive and knows how to effectively and respectfully communicate it - to keep discussing unclear points, to join efforts or work individually and compare possible solutions after a defined time. This makes her extremely valuable as a team lead. At the same time she is very skilled at experimenting different solutions on her own until she finds the best way to solve a given problem. But she is open to hear other’s ideas and opinions and adjust her way if the group decides for a different solution. She is able to clearly state her preferences and explain the reasoning for it. Moving forward I wish Kris will me more aware and confident about her coding and soft skills. She will add a lot of quality and skill combined with caring and warmth to any team she joins. I would love to work with her again." -Claudia Kiesenhofer

"I remember the first time I met you when we had lunch roulette together at "Protein Bar" and you began to talk about your background. From what I can remember about the conversation it seemed like you were in a really stressful state which always made me wonder how the hell you were even pushing forward with that and being a student at Turing. This really showed a lot about you where I was left with the impression that you truly are one of the most hardest working students I've met in Turing. I'm glad I was able to get to know you better when I joined 1602 because I got to see another side of you. I got to see a happier Kris who wasn't so serious or taking the most amazing notes ever! I got to see a Kris that taught me a very important skill (basic floral design) that will help in the the future when I have to plan a last minute gift for my significant other. I got to see a Kris who just looked at a much calmer place than the one I met at "Protein Bar". Thanks for being a good friend and without a doubt I know you will have a job as a dev and be making that money that'll allow you to travel the world again and get to show off your marital art skills! #BeLikeKris" -Alex Navarrete

### Playing a Part

I participated in Joan Clark this module, didn't miss a single class.  I hosted several open invitation events at our near campus house.  I am the house mom for both Jon Liss and Nick Dorans.  I participated in lunch roulette and went to Julian's going away party. I was at both pairings with mod 1 of the front end and the team we worked with said my help and insight was very helpful.  I could have done more, that's true.  I felt really tapped out this module.  But I have reached out when a few students in lower mods needed help and I did the best I could with what I had left to give.  

## Review

### Rubric Scores

* **A: End-of-Module Assessment**: ...
* **B: Individual Work & Projects**: 3
* **C: Group Work & Projects**: 3
* **D: Community Participation**: 3
* **E: Peer & Instructor Feedback**: 3

### Notes

( Leave blanks for reviewers )

### Outcome

( Leave blanks for reviewers )
