# Tom King - M3 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis
I had 3 goals for this mod:
  1. Improve my developer awareness.
  2. Develop better leadership skills and approaches.
  3. Learn React/Redux/Router architecture.


## Rubric Scores

* **A: End-of-Module Assessment**: 4
* **B: Individual Work & Projects**: 3.95
* **C: Group Work & Projects**: 3.72
* **D: Community Participation**: 3
* **E: Professional Development: 

-----------------------

## Individual Self-Assessment
I believe I have greatly improved my code sanitation,
writing more concise and reusable code, benefiting
those who work with me as well as future-Tom.  
While this mod as proven to be a challenge, 
I have definitely come out of it with an 
improved patience and willingness to compromise.  
I actually enjoy breaking things now, 
feeling confident that I can reassemble. 

## A: End-of-Module Assessment
"HARD PASS"

## B: Individual Work & Projects
### Personal Project
Planet Express: [Assessment](https://github.com/turingschool/front-end-submissions-public/blob/master/1804/mod-3/personal-projects/tom-king/scores.md)

## C: Group Work & Projects
SWAPIbox: [Assessment](https://github.com/turingschool/front-end-submissions-public/blob/master/1804/mod)  
MovieTracker: [Assessment](https://github.com/turingschool/front-end-submissions-public/blob/master/1804/mod-3/movie-tracker/tom-megan-chris/scores.md)

## D: Community Participation
I participated in two Iron-Fe's, but I think my greatest contribution was to the
development of personal projects within both Front/Back-End mods. 
It was a lot of fun working with vastly different projects and solving issues in
unfamiliar languages.

## Outcome
PASS

* **A: End-of-Module Assessment**: 4
* **B: Individual Work & Projects**: 3.5
* **C: Group Work & Projects**: 3.5
* **D: Community Participation**: 3.5
* **E: Professional Development: 3

