The biggest achievement I had this module was being able to create a backend and have it fully tested. My achievements usually stem from my struggles, so I will have to describe the struggles as well. In the beginning with Palette Picker I struggled with getting a seeded database in order to write passing tests. What helped with this was our next backend project, Build Your Own Backend. My project partner was more successful with testing on Palette Picker, so we worked together on improving our tests. Therefore BYOB was my biggest achievement because we managed to get it fully tested. Testing and I have had a love/hate relationship, but the more I work on it the better I become, and I am proud of the improvements I have made.  

I also struggled a bit with building out application data. With BYOB we chose a topic that was foreign to me, so it was hard to realize which relationships were one-to-many or many-to-many. Looking back over our lessons, I realize a good tool to help with this would have been Schema Designer. Because I am a visual learner, this situation made me come to the conclusion that I sometimes forget to visualize the challenges I am tackling. Moving forward I will make more effort to to utilize my learning process in order to help me tackle challenges more successfully.  

When I had the time, I worked on putting together a personal website. This was a great way to take a break from what we were working on. Because I was building my personal website in React, it was a good opportunity to refresh my skills with React as we were mostly dealing with the backend this module. One new tool I used in building my personal website was Google's Material UI. I decided to use this tool because it seemed like a quick way to throw together a website when I was short on time. I do not think other students have used this tool, so I figure this experience might set me apart from other classmates. Getting started was not easy because I could not find any helpful or insightful tutorials. But I liked the idea of implementing styled components and using themes to create a consistent user experience throughout the site. Because I was determined to learn about this tool I was driven to make it work, and I believe I did. Due to the lack of tutorials I have been inspired to try and create one on this tool in the future.  

While filling out my portfolio for the Turing website last module, I listed that I would be interested in full-stack jobs even before exposure to the backend. Because I have come to enjoy working with JavaScript on the frontend, I anticipated enjoying working on the backend because the frameworks we used were in JavaScript. I assumed correctly, and as we started to build somewhat larger and more complex backends I began to really appreciate all the hard work people do to build out and manage databases. I hope to have the opportunity to tackle the wonderful challenges a full-stack job might bring.  

My love for problem solving is my strongest skill. As I retrace the work I have done at school, a common theme in my stories revolve around challenges I overcame on projects. To me, programming would be boring if it was easy. I enjoy the process of attempting something, failing, and trying again. It helps me to recognize mistakes so that I may avoid them in the future. What also helps is having the ability to tackle a new challenge by breaking it out into smaller, more manageable problems, and working my way out from there. I am also very fortunate to have touched on computer science fundamentals, such as sorting algorithms, tries, Big-O notation and design patterns. When talking with other developers about my learning topics at school, some of them argue that these fundamentals are not pertinent to being a frontend developer. I, however, believe these fundamentals help build strong foundations in the way I approach problems and write code.

[30 day action plan](https://gist.github.com/meloncatty/e3a82b02bf0ddd797cd1f1c78b5978e2)
