# Mary Bork - M1 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

What did you set out to accomplish this module? Were you successful?

    This module, I intended to become proficient in the basic skills of Ruby.
  I think as the module progressed, a new goal that I gave myself was to take
  ownership of my learning and my process a bit more.
  I believe that I met both of these goals for the most part. I obviously do not know everything there is to know about Ruby, but I have become much more comfortable approaching
  the challenges of the language and finding resources to pull myself up with.
  I also continue to practice maintaining my own internal balance and motivation when pursuing a goal at the pace and direction of other people, which has been an ongoing challenge for me. Overall, I feel happy about the progress I've made over the course of module one.

What did you struggle most with this module? What did you learn from that struggle?
    A struggle that I have been experiencing during this module has been maintaining sight of my own goals and my own motivations in pursuing this skill. I think the pace of this program keeps you challenged with little goals and deadlines(associated of course with the larger goal) that can obscure perspective a little bit. I think this has been teaching me to remove myself from overthinking the outcome of activities to an extent and to instead just embrace and trust that small steps forward are valuable and build up momentum over time.
## Projects

What were your favorite projects this module? Least favorite? Why?
  I enjoyed Black Thursday because it created a space for all of the skills we have been learning to come together. It gave me insight into all of the small pieces that pull together a complex project. I also liked CompleteMe because it taught me about new data structures. The projects that I disliked were the ones that I was unable to spend sufficient time on for them to be successful.

What did you learn from your independent projects?
  I think independent projects are nice because it removes the extra challenge of maintaining
  a social dynamic with a partner while you work on a problem, but I also think that working with a partner usually promoted the development of new skills and new work style perspectives which were always valuable.

What did you learn from your paired projects?
  I learned that working in a team brings the value of multiple perspectives and skill sets, but it also often creates a slight disorientation in the skills and perspectives that you feel comfortable in when you work alone.

## Community

How did you contribute to the Turing community this module?

    I think I interacted with people a lot more than I did when I first began module one.
  Through these interactions, I have met the motivations and goals of the people around me and have gained insight into how I could help them with their goals or at least support them better and cheer them on.

What would you like to do to contribute next module?
    I think as I become more comfortable with the structure at Turing, I am beginning to feel more flexible in the ways I might be able to utilize my time. I would like to interact with people more during the next module. I think I gained a lot by doing that during this module. I would also like to interact with more industry events and network more.

## Self-Assessment Scores

Fill in how you would grade yourself from 1-4 in the following categories this module.

| Category                     | Score |
| -----------------------------| ----- |
| **Individual Projects**      |   2   |
| **Group Projects**           |   3   |
| **Professional Development** |   4   |
| **Community**                |   4   |
| **Pentathlon**               |   3   |
