# (JF Lalonde) - (M1) Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

By the end of Module 1, I wanted to be comfortable with basic ruby syntax.
I also wanted to feel comfortable problem-solving and troubleshooting errors.
I've surpassed the expectations I had for where I would be after just six weeks.
Breaking down a problem into smaller parts and slowly working back up to build a functional program is something that I've seen myself get better at with each project. I feel like I have a good grasp of objects and scope, and I am getting used to the idea that there is more information available than I can take in at any given moment.

## Rubric Scores

* **A: End-of-Module Assessment**: X
* **B: Individual Work & Projects**: 3
* **C: Group Work & Projects**: 3
* **D: Professional Skills**: 3
* **E: Community Participation**: 3

-----------------------

## A: End of Module Assessment

Passed


## B: Individual Work & Projects

I found individual work to have its pros and cons.
I enjoyed working by myself and found that I would research things more deeply when I felt like I had no time constraints. It also allowed me to work at my own pace. On the other hand, working with other people and getting to bounce ideas off of each other lead to some great ideas.

#### (Credit Check)

* https://github.com/JF-Lalonde/credit_check
* http://backend.turing.io/module1/projects/credit_check

Credit Check was the first project I worked on at Turing. We implemented the Luhn algorithm to validate credit card numbers.
Looking back on this, I can't believe I didn't even use a class in the whole program. This serves as a great reference point for where I started.

This project was not evaluated.

#### (Jungle Beats)

* https://github.com/JF-Lalonde/jungle_beats
* http://backend.turing.io/module1/projects/jungle_beat

Jungle Beats was a foray into linked lists and the concept of using nodes to build a drum machine program.
This was my first full project at Turing.
I found this project to be difficult to conceptualize at first, as I had never seen recursion in a program before.
I eventually found a rhythm to my workflow, but ran out of time before I could complete the project.

Rubric:

### 1. Fundamental Ruby & Style

* 3:  Application shows strong effort towards organization, content, and refactoring

### 2. Looping *or* Recursion

* 3: Application makes effective use of loop/recursion techniques

### 3. Test-Driven Development

* 3: Application is well tested but does not balance isolation and integration tests, using only the data necessary to test the functionality

### 4. Encapsulation / Breaking Logic into Components

* 3: Application effectively breaks logical components apart but breaks the principle of SRP

### 5. Functional Expectations

* 2: Application runs, but does not work properly, or does not meet specifications.

#### (Battleship)

* https://github.com/JF-Lalonde/battleship
* http://backend.turing.io/module1/projects/battleship

Battleship was my second individual project, and fourth overall project. Time was again a big issue, and I managed to complete the project but had no time left to refactor. I also did not commit for several days which is why I failed that section of the rubric. I have since gotten much better at committing.

Notes:
* Applicaiton runs
* repl is nice
* Some duplicated and redundant code
* a lot is living in the battleship class

Rubric:

### 1. Fundamental Ruby & Style

* 2:  Application runs but the code has many long methods (>8 lines) and needs significant refactoring

### 2. Enumerable & Collections

* 3: Application demonstrates comfortable use of several Enumerable techniques

### 3. Test-Driven Development

* 3: Application is well tested but does not balance isolation and integration tests

### 4. Git Workflow

* FAIL: Developer does not commit often, commits are overly large, poor commit messages. Drastic changes in code in a single commit.

### 4. REPL Interface

* 3: Application's REPL is clear and pleasant to use

### 5. Breaking Logic into Components

* 2: Application shows some effort to break logic into components, but the divisions are inconsistent or unclear


### 6. Functional Expectations

* 3: Application meets all requirements as laid out per the specification.


## C: Group Work & Projects

### Projects

Working in group projects can be a little daunting. I've found that I can be highly adaptable to the circumstances, and try to do whatever it takes to get the project done. My first project was a great pair and we were both willing to put in as much time as we could driving/navigating. I felt like my second pairing was a little more challenging as we hit a difference in knowledge that made it difficult to break work up and assign it.

#### (Night Writer)

* https://github.com/swdonovan/night_writer
* http://backend.turing.io/module1/projects/night_writer

Night Writer was my first paired project. I found it to be a great experience, and although we didn't get the project done the chance to bounce ideas off someone else was extremely useful and helped us be more productive.

Notes:  
12 passing tests
Utilized multiple classes  
Broke methods down into smaller pieces, talked through options for runner methods vs ladder  
Method and variable names communicated intent and functionality  
Translates from eng to braille w/ 80 char truncation

Rubric:

### 1. Fundamental Ruby & Style

* 3:  Application shows strong effort towards organization, content, and refactoring

### 2. Test-Driven Development

* 2: Application makes use of tests, but the coverage is insufficient

### 3. Encapsulation / Breaking Logic into Components

* 3: Application consistently breaks concepts into classes and methods which have appropriate scope and responsibilities (SRP).

### 4. Functional Expectations

* 2: Application runs, but does not work properly, or does not meet specifications.

#### (Black Thursday)

* https://github.com/JF-Lalonde/black_thursday
* http://backend.turing.io/module1/projects/black_thursday

Black Thursday was my final project, as well as my second group project. We had to gain an understanding of ORM and navigating information through multiple classes. I found myself having to take on the brunt of the work but through it I learned a lot and solidified some skills like using more advanced enumerables.

## D: Professional Skills
I am looking forward to developing my professional presence more in future mods. For the moment I am focusing on developing a base of connections on LinkedIn and plan on reaching out to mentors next module.

### Gear Up
* https://gist.github.com/JF-Lalonde

#### (Growth Mindset)
For the first session of GearUp we talked about the idea of keeping a growth mindset. I've tried to keep that attitude during the difficult times, and I have mostly managed to convinced myself that I can get passed all these obstacles. I know that my skillset is still small compared to many others, but each day it is getting bigger and I am becoming a more competent programmer.

###(Better at Difficult Things)
This talk was a bit perplexing to me, as the whole idea is to learn difficult things by watching experts perform. Then go and do high-repetition, high-quality exercises to become better. It felt like the first part was contradicting how Turing does things, which is a learn-by-doing attitude.

###(Intro/Extrovert)
This was probably my least favorite gear-up. I found that breaking people down into groups of introverts and extroverts was not conducive to how I see myself, and many people in the groups at the gear-up told me they felt the same. I understand the basis of the lesson was to make people aware that different people recharge in different ways, but I would like to see a more nuanced approach in the future.

###(Personal Story)
Getting to develop myself as a professional programmer includes creating an image that employers will see, so I thought this gear-up was valuable. It was a little difficult for me to think about myself in the mindset of marketing myself, but I understand the value and want to keep working at curating an image and a professional attitude in order to be competitive in the job market.

###(Debugging Gender Gap)
I found this video to be very interesting. It lead to great conversation throughout the class and beyond. It's interesting to see just how biased the industry can be against certain genders and races, and I found that this gear-up lead to this issue being something I am more conscious of and will try to keep being very conscious of as I enter the workplace.

## E: Community Participation

### Playing a Part

I joined the Turing Lab posse and made my house available to them if we ever need tools/space/etc. for future projects. I also spent a few evenings cleaning common areas as well as the backend Mod 1 classroom. I have attended impostors lunches and try to participate and offer my help to members of the Turing community wherever I can. I will be hosting a BBQ for the backend Mod 1 students this following Saturday to celebrate the hard work everyone has put in. I have also donated electronics to fellow students to support their efforts at charitable work.

------------------

## Final Review

### Notes

( Leave blanks for reviewers )

### Outcome

( Leave blanks for reviewers )
