# Jeff Duke - M4 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

This module I set out to solidify my skills and learn more about getting out of the browser.  I was very excited to work on back-end setup, mobile and desktop app building.  It's been a really fun mod and I've enjoyed the challenges of writing Javascript in new ways.  I really enjoyed all of the projects and learning about how to work with databases.

## Rubric Scores

Fill in how *YOU* would grade yourself from 1-4 in the following categories this module:

* **A: End-of-Module Assessment**: 3
* **B: Individual Work & Projects**: 3
* **C: Group Work & Projects**: 4
* **D: Professional Development**: 4
* **E: Feedback & Community Participation**: 4

-----------------------

## A: End of Module Assessment

Final score 148/175

## B: Individual Work & Projects

The only individual project we had this mod was a websocket workshop.  I really enjoyed the project.  I'd implemented websockets in my personal project from mod-3 and it was good to get more exposure to setting up the environment and getting the websockets communicating. 

#### Ask The Audience

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/Jeff-Duke/ask-the-audience)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/front-end-curriculum/blob/a1d6ddb5ca444b85e4925db2a6c7fbd9330c03ad/lessons/websocket-workshop.md)

This project involved setting up a node/express/socket.io server with a front-end.  We used web sockets to total up votes entered on the front-end and publish them to all other clients.  

No evaluation for this project.

## C: Group Work & Projects

### Projects

For projects this mod we had JetFuel: A URL Shortener built with Node and Express.  Curiously-Native: A React-Native app, Imposter Syndrome: an Electron app built with Vue and our Capstone Project.

#### Capstone Project

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/Jeff-Duke/turing-fridays)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/capstone.html)

##### Description
For our capstone we built an app to help streamline Fridays at Turing.  The app allows a user to login with their github account to see the Friday Guest Speaker, Gear-up link and any scheduled spike sessions. A student is able to submit a Friday Spike of their own.  When a student submits a spike, before it has been approved by an admin, they are able to edit or delete the spike.  Students are able to join any spike session.  If they join another they are removed from the first they joined. 

Admins are able to approve spikes, assign locations, edit their fields or delete them.  Admins are also able to submit Friday Guest Speakers and Submit Gear-up information.  

Users and Admins both are able to view a map of the new Turing space along with which gear up is in each classroom.

##### Comments
Really strong app and very polished.  Just a couple minor UI tweaks, we should add a count of attendees to the map piece, some UI element to better distinguish between approved or pending spikes, and a UI element to show which fields of a spike are editable by the admin or user.

##### Evaluation Scores
* Deployed 75
* JS Style - 45/50
* UI - indicator on editable fields - 38/40
* Risk Taking and Creativity - 60
* Testing - 45/50
* Workflow - 50/50

* Total: 313/325

##### Feedback to me: 
* From Casey
I worked with Jeff twice this module, thus I have now partnered with him three times. Jeff makes a fantastic teammate, our strengths complement each other nicely.  On our second project he suggested we take our git workflow to the next level through GitHub issues, and I have found them incredibly useful on all subsequent projects.  I know Jeff is going to be highly successful in his career and I look forward to seeing what kinds of cool robotics he makes!

* From Pete
Jeff and I worked together on the capstone this mod.
Jeff did a great job of bringing organization to our
project by encouraging github issues and code reviews
requiring 2 approvals. Jeff's PR's are also very thorough
and easy to follow. Jeff has been a pleasure to work with
at all stages throughout this program.

* From Kirsten
This was our second time working together and just like last time you can always be counted on for functionality and figuring out the solution. Not to mention your design skills have greatly improved since Idea Box. Definitely a strength of yours is problem solving and solving problems in a methodic way instead of a “janky” way. After figuring out the problem you can always explain your logic in an easy and digestible manner. Together, with your logic and my design skills we make a good team. Wherever your future lands you I know you’re going to be an amazing asset and strong developer to any team!

#### Imposter Syndrome

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/Jeff-Duke/amptron)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/imposter-syndrome.html)

##### Description
For this project we built an MP3 player in Electron using Vue.  We used the HTML5 audio api to play the MP3s and built custom functions using a couple different libraries to gather track info from the ID3 tags and track length to load it into the player and display relevant information.

##### Evaluation Score
132 / 175

##### Feedback to me

#### Curiously Native

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/Jeff-Duke/HoopDreams)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/curiously-native.html)

##### Description
For this project we built an app using React-native.  The goal of the app was to build something in React-Native, consume an API and add some data visualization.  We built an app that pulls in info from the NBA for a team that the user picks.  It visualizes a few different offensive/defensive stats by player.

##### Evaluation Score
167 / 175

##### Feedback to me

#### Jet Fuel

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/Jeff-Duke/jetfuel)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/jet-fuel.html)

##### Description
For this project we built a URL shortener, similar to bit.ly, using Node and Express.  We built the front-end in vanilla JS and jQuery.  

##### Evaluation Score
88 / 100

##### Feedback to me
* From Casey
I worked with Jeff twice this module, thus I have now partnered with him three times. Jeff makes a fantastic teammate, our strengths complement each other nicely.  On our second project he suggested we take our git workflow to the next level through GitHub issues, and I have found them incredibly useful on all subsequent projects.  I know Jeff is going to be highly successful in his career and I look forward to seeing what kinds of cool robotics he makes!


## D: Professional Development

### Professional Development Workshops
#### Job Priorities
My top three priorities are location, company-size and new developer support.  I need to stay in Denver so my wife can go to school.  I don't want to work for another large company, I'd prefer to work with a small to mid-size company.  I'm looking for a company that wants to work with new developers, to mentor them and to get them writing code rather than just cleaning up bugs and docs.

#### Job Barriers
To get past perceived barriers in my job search I plan to pull on as many resources as I can.  I am working with my mentor to find as many leads as possible.  I met with Ian Douglas to look over my resume and get notes.  I've used the cold outreach methods given to us by Lia and Meg to meet with several folks at local tech companies to learn about the tech industry in Denver and get advice about being a new developer.  I've learned a lot like how companies don't post jr dev jobs and how to network and find other avenues for looking for jobs.

#### Cold Outreach Emails
I've sent more than the required number of cold outreach emails.  I've reached out to folks at Rachio, Parkifi, Snowvation, Crownpeak, and Apto.  I've had informational interviews with Aaron and Franz at Rachio, Jessica at Parkifi and Paul at Crownpeak.  I'm going to meet with Samuel with Apto next week.


## E: Feedback and Community Participation

### Giving Feedback

* To Pete
Jeff and I worked together on the capstone this mod.
Jeff did a great job of bringing organization to our
project by encouraging github issues and code reviews
requiring 2 approvals. Jeff's PR's are also very thorough
and easy to follow. Jeff has been a pleasure to work with
at all stages throughout this program.

* To Kirsten
Kirsten it was a lot of fun working with you on the capstone project.  It wouldn't be as polished as it is without you.  You always do a great job of thinking through all the UI edge cases and you do an excellent job of putting together a polished app!  Our app would definitely be another basic idea box without your touches and expertise!  It's been great working with you throughout the program!

* To Casey
Casey it was great working with you on the capstone project and Jet Fuel.  As we've worked on several projects together there isn't much constructive feedback I can give.  It was great working with you on both projects, we work well together and our git workflow is on point!  It was great working with you throughout the program!

* To David
David, it was great working with you on the Capstone project and our React-Native projects.  You're a super strong developer and I think we work really well together.  I always know I can bounce ideas off you and we can come to a quick solution to any problem.  It's been great working with you throughout the program.  I hope we get the chance to work on projects together after Turing!

* To Ben
Ben, it was awesome working with you on Amptron.  I thought we did a great job of working together.  We came together to tackle problems and did a great job of dividing & conquering tasks to get a pretty cool app put together in a short period of time.  I'm stoked to work on getting our NPM package published.  I hope we get to work on some projects together after Turing.  I'm glad we got to work together on a project!

* To Maia
Maia, thanks so much for helping make the Turing Lab a big success!  It was great to have your enthusiasm and drive for seeing the posse become a reality.  I'm glad to know that you and Joey will be around for another mod to keep things going and I hope you are able to find a couple folks to take over for you.  I'd love to see the lab continue on and be a long-running posse at Turing.  Please let me know if there's anything I can do to help!  Good luck with Mod-4 and your career after Turing

* To Joey
Joey, it was great getting our posse off the ground this mod.  Thanks for being the motivator and helping getting it off the ground.  It was a lot of fun and, in my opinion, very successful.  I'm glad you and Maia will be here another mod to keep it going and I hope you're able to find a couple of folks to take it over so that it'll keep going!  Please reach out if I can help at all this next inning.  Good luck and I look forward to seeing what you make and where you go after Turing!

### Being a Community Member

* Feedback from Joey
Hey Jeff, thanks for being a part of the Turing Lab this module. All the arduino stuff that we did would not been possible if you had not taught us about Johnny 5 at the first meeting. I think you’re personal project sparked a ton of interest in hardware around Turing, and it’s really cool to see a lot of different people messing with micro controllers. Thanks again for your help with the posse. I’m looking forward to seeing any hardware projects you take on in the future.

* Feedback from Maia
Jeff, I'm going to miss having you around the school and the posse.  You are a pleasure to work with, and I love how you calmly and quietly, but vigriously teach your peers on a diverse set of skills.  Thanks for including me with the leadership team and geting this thing rolling.  I look forward to the progress of the Turing Lab.  Stay in touch!

### Playing a Part

This mod I worked with Joey Stansfield and Maia Stone to start a new posse at Turing for hardware/maker/3d printing.  The posse attracted a lot of folks.  We were able to get the 3d printer up and running, created a few robotics projects and introduced a lot of folks to the fun of making electronics projects using Arduinos.  Maia started showing a group of students about e-textiles projects. 

### Gear Up
* MicroAggressions
The main takeaways from this session for me were that it can be easy for people to not realize they are saying something harmful to another person.  Microagressions shouldn't be tolerated.  I wasn't 100% sure what microagressions were before the session. 

* Journey Mapping
This wasn't a great session for me.  It wasn't well introduced and wasn't explained very well why it was important.  It was good to go through the process to see what a Journey map is but at least for our session there could have been more follow-through about how we might use this in the real world.  

* Grit
I enjoyed this session.  It was really good to reflect back on my time at Turing and think about how my grit has helped me be successful.  I've grown a lot and my grit has grown exponentially from my experiences at Turing.  The session helped me realize how important Grit is and how important it is to work hard at something your'e passionate about.

------------------

## Final Review

### Notes

( Leave blanks for reviewers )

### Outcome

Passed
