# Steven Olson - M4 Portfolio

### Your Mission

My goal for this module was to both succeed in general in the coursework and get a decent JavaScript foundation, but also to really hit the job hunt hard and have some leads coming out of school. I think I did fairly well at balancing the two things throughout the module. I did well on most of the projects (my last project was kind of an MVP to get the required points), and have a couple job leads that could possibly maybe result in offers this week or next.

### Attendance

Typical mod 4 spottiness, but at least my absences were due to job interviews. I often chose to work outside of the basement whenever possible.

### Projects

Group / individual projects and assessments from Module 4:

#### Game Time

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/SteveOscar/Jezz_Ball)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/lesson_plans/blob/master/ruby_04-apis_and_scalability/gametime_project.markdown)

**Building a client-side JavaScript game rendered in HTML Canvas**

Brenna and I built a JezzBall clone, which involves trapping a moving ball between walls without the ball hitting a building wall. Challenges included creating collision detection between the ball, canvas edges, and all built walls, and tracking the amount of canvas that had been eliminated.

Assessed By: Meeka

#### Project Score: 140/150

* Playability Features: All present, with 1 extension for working on mobile devices.
* UI: The application is pleasant, logical, and easy to use. There no holes in functionality and the application stands on it own to be used by the instructor without guidance from the developer.
* Testing: Project has a running test suite that exercises the application at multiple levels. The test suite covers almost all aspects of the application and uses mocks and stubs when appropriate.
* JavaScript: Application is thoughtfully put together with some duplication and no major bugs. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code is doing.  
* WorkFlow: The developer effectively uses Git branches and many small, atomic commits that document the evolution of their application.



## Scale Up (personal project option)

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/SteveOscar/Ramble_App)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/curriculum/blob/master/source/projects/the_scale_up.markdown)

**Building a React Native App**  

I made a React Native IOS app that displays the currency and expense data generated by my Ramble Map project. This involved learning the basics of React Native and Xcode. The app is called Ramble App. Ramble Map & Ramble App. Wowwwww. To implement this I built out a few API endpoints to hit in the mapping application. I plan on putting this app in the Apple App Store after polishing it a little more.

  Assessed By: Meeka

#### Project Score: 150/150

* Blog Posts: Developer has >= 2 blog posts documenting something they have worked on for their independent study or has one in depth blog post
* Participation: Developer participated daily in stand ups with the group (remote or in person). Developer was able to speak to their work in stand ups in a way that was clear and informative. Developer was involved in pull request reviews.
* Risk-taking: Developer pushed themselves and their team by taking risks which is demonstrated by a delivered feature. Developers explored concepts and technologies outside the scope of the curriculum.


## RealTime

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/SteveOscar/websockets)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/curriculum/blob/master/source/projects/real_time.markdown)

**SOCK. IT's.**

The goal of RealTime was to learn how to use websockets to create real-time interactions and feedback on websites using socket.io to push things from the server, rather than using the HTTP pattern of the server always waiting on the client to send a request.

Assessed By: Steve

#### Score: 123/200

Project completed basic spec requirements and websocket functionality, but lacked development of the UI. It was basically an MVP project to learn the basics of websockets, and I used the rest of my time in the job hunt, such as breaking down in Loveland and spending all afternoon/evening way up there.


## Community  

- I paired with students from all modules on their projects   
- Attended 4 or 5 meetups  
- Did 1603 headshots  
- I made a ruby gem (during the last module but forgot to include that last time, so...)

### Giving Feedback

To: Brenna -   Working with Brenna on the GameTime project was a great experience. Our skill sets were complementary, so between the two of us, we were able to smoothly work through all of the challenges. Through her work and partnership, I gained a better understanding of some CSS concepts (because she is a front-end wizard). Her attitude and personality make her very enjoyable and pleasant partner to work with.

To: Dad Steve -  SteveP is the top bun to my bottom bun. Some have said that a Steve sandwich doesn’t exist (because the meat is what defines a sandwich), but these people have clearly never been in a Steve sandwich. They don’t know what ultimate safety and comfort feels like..  I’m always impressed by his design work, both on the computer and in his hairstyle. Beyond that, he’s a well-rounded developer and, but brings no ego and is always a pleasure to be around. I’m a bit disappointed we’ve never been assigned to work on a project together.  But also I understand - that just wouldn't be fair.

To: Dan - I've found dan to always be more than willing to sit down with me and figure out a problem. And then figure it out from another angle. And then think of some other problem to figure out. His drive to really learn the concepts pushes the whole group to learn more, and he can quickly grasp how all the parts fit together in the big picture. He’s easy to work with, and is very open to suggestions, while being willing to defend his position when warranted.


### Being a Community Member

From: Steve P - Steve-O, the king of laid-backness, also happens to be the innovator of 1510. If you watch the group, you’ll notice that he’s generally the one to pioneer a new skill. More importantly, he is overly-generous with his time and is one of the most approachable characters in 1510. His Reddit and Google skills will serve him well in the future, and I mean that seriously. Finally, have you noticed his style? One particular day he wore boots, short denim? shorts, and a cut neck hoodie. The future is Steve, and I am honored to share a namespace with this fine gentleman. Now let's graduate and get some bolo-ties!

From: Dan - Working with Steve on various issues during our mod 4 projects was a great experience. He’s always willing to sit down and discuss a problem. Steve is easy to work with as a pair by thinking critically about the challenge and gets things done quickly when working solo. Not only can he Rails, he can also JavaScript/React very well.

From: Brenna - I was lucky enough to work with Steve on a the GameTime project that focused on building a client-side game in HTML Canvas. One of the best parts about working with Steve is his ability to exude confidence and control even when facing the inevitable road blocks. He has an amazing sense of humor that made these challenges oddly enjoyable, and I found that we worked at a very similar pace which made overcoming challenges a great learning experience for us both.

### Rubric Scores

* **A: End-of-Module Assessment**: 3
* **B: Individual Work & Projects**: 3
* **C: Group Work & Projects**: 3
* **D: Community Participation**: 3
* **E: Peer & Instructor Feedback**: 3

### Notes

* I have no strong feelings on teal
* CompleteMe in M1 were the most difficult for me

### Outcome

GRADUATED
