# Jeneve Parrish - M3 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

In Module three, I worked to implement all of the basic Rails I has learned in Module two
while integrating APIs to provide content for my projects and Javascript to improve
the user's experience.

## Individual Projects
### Curioator - self-directed

Curioator is an app for learning about art. In brief, Curioator allows users to specify their interests from a list generated by calls to Artsy’s “Genes” endpoint, then displays content returned from Artsy’s “Search” endpoint.

**Client**: Nate

 * [Github repository](https://github.com/jeneve/curioator)
 * [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/lesson_plans/blob/master/ruby_03-professional_rails_applications/self_directed_project.md)
 * [Evaluation scores](https://github.com/turingschool/ruby-submissions/blob/master/1602/self-directed/jeneve.md)

**Notes**:

 * Very cool app. Can't wait for it to be on heroku.
 * Good work troubleshooting some weird testing and javascript things.
 * Nice use of AJAX throughout the app

### Rails Engine

Rails Engine is an API that exposes sales data for an e-commerce enterprise.

**Assesed By**: Brenna

* [Github repository](https://github.com/jeneve/rails-engine)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/lesson_plans/blob/master/ruby_03-professional_rails_applications/rails_engine.md)
* [Evaluation scores](https://github.com/turingschool/ruby-submissions/blob/master/1602/rails_engine/jeneve-parrish.md)

  **Notes**:

* 4 Failing tests
* Find/Find_all/Random only non-restful routes
* 66 Tests - 85.19% Coverage
* Uses serializers to display revenue info (mostly)

## Group Projects
### The Pivot

Pivot Ticket is a platform for Venue owners to allow users to buy and sell tickets to that venues events.

**Team**: Drew Thompson & Jeneve Parrish & Gurusundesh Khalsa

**Client**: Nate

 * [Github repository](https://github.com/jeneve/pivot_ticket)
 * [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/lesson_plans/blob/master/ruby_03-professional_rails_applications/the_pivot.md)
 * [Evaluation scores](https://github.com/turingschool/ruby-submissions/blob/master/1602/the_pivot/Jeneve_Drew_Sunny.md)

**Notes**:

 * Tests Passed
 * MVC is solid, but could thin out big methods and move things into POROs
 * Views are good, except for that thing that surprised Sunny
 * Clever solution to Permissions problem, clever in the good and bad way.
 * Except for a little jank, UI is clean
 * Routes file is slightly inconsistent with itself. Using different patterns to solve the same problem.
 * My face
 * QR Codes! Welcome to the future!

## Feedback

#### From peers

 - (from Sunny) I had a really wonderful experience working with you. I was seriously impressed about how you were able to adapt to Drew and my coding styles, styles that would appear to clash with your more TDD approach. This however was not an issue, and I think speaks volumes to your both comfort and understanding of code => which leads to your flexibility. You are an extremely hard worker which is amazing considering the lack of sleep you were getting. I also appreciate how consistently curious you were about the code that Drew and I were implementing. I think that curiosity will continue to push your skills. As far as something constructive, I think you are overall doing really well, however I think you have a tendency to put logic in the views, such as chaining active record attributes and associations. From what I understand flow control is not the worst to have in the views, but things like that can be cut out to helper methods.

 - (from Drew) Jeneve was an enormous asset within our group.  She was always willing to take on the challenge of a part of the project even if she didn't necessarily know how to tackle it.  My recommendation for Jeneve would be to take charge.  She is so capable and works very hard.  I think it's easy for her to let someone else take on that role, but it may be beneficial for her to have a larger say in things than she sometimes provides.  Unless she is outright opposed to an idea, she will go with it, when I think quite often she may have a better idea but doesn't speak up.  I would definitely work with Jeneve in the future without any hesitation.  It was awesome to see her dedication to school and still being able to deal with having a family at home.  She did a great job (to my knowledge) of balancing everything.

#### To peers

 - (To Sunny) Sunny, you are relentless when it comes to figuring things out, you never give up. You always asked the question that was on my mind in our client meetings and many more that I could never articulate. I sometimes felt that we weren't on the same page with time management- that you were frequently taking a break when I really wanted to be moving forward and needed your input, or that you weren't around at important decision time. This is not only your problem- we all needed to be more clear about when we would work together and and then to BE available to one another during those times, even when we are working on different parts.

 - (to Drew) I really liked working with you and would welcome working with you again. You are a good leader in that you seemed to always understand the scope of the problem- sometimes when we were in the middle of it, I couldn't understand why you were weren't freaking out (like I was). But in retrospect, I can see that it was never as bad as I thought and you (somehow) knew that it was going to be okay; you were right. in a longer-term working relationship, your team will gain trust in your vision and the work will be much less stressful than the pivot was because of that trust. At the beginning of the project you said that one of your goals was to improve your TDD process; it turned out that the pivot wasn't the best sandbox for meeting that goal- I would encourage you to try that again in your personal projects- because I don't think you are as comfortable with that approach as you might become with more practice.

### Posse Update

Last module I joined the Miyamoto Posse, which focuses on game development and helping each other with projects and homework. This module, not a lot developed in our game, But friendships flourished.

 - [WIP][Turing Basement GitHub Repository](https://github.com/cheljoh/miyamoto/tree/master/text_based_fun)

# Review

 - [Final Assessment Scores](https://gist.github.com/jeneve/c417bcb8dad80bed8dd7609857d4ab7d)


## End-of-Module  Self-Assessment

###### _A Turing student is able to demonstrate proficiency at programming in accordance with the module's content and expectations. If you were exempt from the assessment it's a 3._

**3**: Student achieved a "3" or better on each category of the assessment || excused from assessment

###### Individual Work & Projects:
###### _A Turing student works to maximize their skill growth and demonstrates that skill across a variety of work._

**3**: Student demonstrates commitment and growth in their work through satisfactory evaluations of each project or a clearly upward-sloping trend.

###### C: Group Work & Projects
###### A _Turing student contributes significantly to group projects, helps the team develop their technical skills, and delivers a high-quality product._


**3**: Student fully participates in their group work to facilitate group harmony while achieving consistently satisfactory results.

###### D: Community Participation

###### _A Turing student builds up the community around them by participating and supporting other students, the larger Turing family, and persons outside our walls who want to develop their own skills._


**3**: Student participates in required activities and does at least one or two above-and-beyond supports of the community.

###### E: Peer & Instructor Feedback

###### _A Turing student accelerates the growth of those around them by delivering specific, kind, and actionable feedback. They accelerate their own growth by taking in and acting on the feedback of their peers and instructors._

**3**: Student consistently delivers meaningful feedback for peers and implements strategies to improve themselves in response to feedback.

### Notes


( Leave blanks for reviewers )

### Outcome

( Leave blanks for reviewers )
