# Jack Yeh - M4 Portfolio

## Individual

### Areas of Emphasis

For this module, I wanted to better understand the different facets of JavaScript and find a front-end framework that I could focus after leaving Turing. I wasn't expecting to like JavaScript, but I was pleasantly surprised!

### Attendance

This module I attended all days but one.

### Final
For Idea Box and Thought Box I built single page apps. For the Final, I built a multi-page app.

Functionality: 0
Ruby: 7
Rails API: 10
JavaScript: 0
Testing: 15
UI: 7
Workflow: 15

Total Score: 54
Points needed to pass the module: 14

### Individual Projects

In module four, I completed the following individual projects:

#### Idea Box - Revenge Box

* [Website](https://desolate-inlet-6608.herokuapp.com/ideas)
* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/jxandery/revenge-box)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/curriculum/blob/master/source/projects/revenge_of_idea_box.markdown)

**Description**

Idea Box is a basic CRUD application that encompassed a Rails API back-end/ JavaScript:JQuery front-end.

**Evaluation Comments**

* Percentage Grade: 75.33%
* Total Points: 113

#### ThoughtBox

* [Website](https://polar-bastion-5222.herokuapp.com/)
* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/jxandery/thoughtbox)
* [Original Assignment](https://gist.github.com/stevekinney/82831c5b25029415ce8b)

**Description**

ThoughtBox is a single page app with a Rails API back-end and JavaScript/jQuery front-end. Similar, to idea box it is a basic CRUD application. Instead of ideas, it saves thoughts and links to those thoughts.

**Evaluation Comments**

* Percentage Grade: 98.00%
* Total Points: 98

#### Real Time Polling Application

* [Website](https://tranquil-dusk-4168.herokuapp.com/)
* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/jxandery/turing_slack)
* [Original Assignmentt](https://github.com/turingschool/curriculum/blob/master/source/projects/real_time.markdown)

**Description**

Real-Time is a multi-channel chat app that uses Node, Express, JavaScript, jQuery and websockets.

**Evaluation Comments**

Percentage Grade: 72.50%
Total Points: 145

## Team

###  Group Projects

In module four, I participated in the following team project:

#### Game Time - 1942 Remake

* [Website](http://jackandtravis.github.io/1942-nintendo-clone-js/)
* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/JackAndTravis/1942-nintendo-clone-js/)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/lesson_plans/blob/master/ruby_04-apis_and_scalability/gametime_project.markdown)

**Description**

Game Time is a remake of the original Nintendo game, 1942. 1942 is based on the WWII naval and aviation battles in the Pacific. Despite my protests instructors shoot poop emojis at one of their own.

**Evaluation Comments**

* Percentage Grade: 95.%
* Total Points: 285

**Feedback to me**

George: Jack fit in quickly and easily to our cohort. He was always eager to learn more and was respectful and enthusiastic about soliciting and receiving help. Helped brainstorm and support ideas for Kids Who Code.

Travis: Jack was a great partner. I love how deliberate his thought process is when tackling a problem. Sometimes I felt like I would start to sprint down one path of reasoning that wasn’t necessarily the best method, and in these sorts of situations Jack would typically reign me back in and be a needed dose of skepticism until the idea we were juggling was fully fleshed out. On the same token, I thinks sometimes Jack was a little too reticent to try out potential solutions to a problem, so potentially a little more cowboy coding might serve him well. Also, I LOVE that Jack likes testing. Yay testing.

Matt: Jack Yeh, Was excellent to pair with. When we paired for some reason I was really nervous at the start. His demeanor and conversational style completely diffused that and Before long ideas were flowing freely and we were both having fun with the code.  I appreciate that he let me know when we were not on the same page but also reassuring me that we were on the same page. It boosted the confidence level and just made the whole experience much more interactive

## Community

### Giving Feedback
George: George is doing a really great thing teaching kids to code. It’s something that is personally important to me and I am glad that this projects is one that George is continuing post-Turing. George’s quiet demeanor and work ethic is a model or the rest of us. He just likes to get shit done. I look forward to helping George with Kids Who Code going into the future. Since, I didn’t work on a project or assignment with him, I don’t have suggestions for things he can improve on.

Matt: I had some preconceived notions about Matt before working with him. I expected him to be difficult to work with and just plow ahead without agreeing on an approach or thought process. I was pleasantly surprised that I was wrong. He could do better in understanding what the other person was trying to achieve earlier in the assignment. Working together it took us a little bit to get on the same page. Once we did I found that we were able to get the assignment done more quickly and with an iterative solution that was pretty elegant. Matt has mentioned that empathy is something he is working to improve. Matt is smart and is confident in his abilities but it can be a hinderance to his learning, as it exposes him to fewer approaches and solutions.  One exercise that he may find useful for his next collaborative project or assignment would be to let the other person drive and arrive at a solution that is based completely on the other person's approach.

Travi: I really enjoyed working with Travis. He is one of the few students who really loves testing. So, it wasn’t difficult to work together when he also wanted to 1) tdd and/or 2) code, spike, then tdd.  Also, he generally is a force for positivity and calmness. Travis was fearless in trying anything to get functionality working. Which was great because he was not attached to any one approach or idea he just came up with. But it also meant that it was difficult to think 2 or 3 steps ahead. He may want to consider spending a bit more time thinking about design and how to be intentional about it.
### Playing a Part

* Volunteered for Kids Who Code: supported George where he needed help with the kiddos
* Helped with Interview Prep: Worked with Rose to get ready for tech screen and interview. We went over potential questions, programming concepts and general preparedness.
* Organized non-drinking cohort activities: going to the movies

## Review

### Notes

( Leave blanks for reviewers )

### Outcome

( Leave blanks for reviewers )
