# Bret Funk - M2 Portfolio

-----------------------

## A: Personal Growth

## Areas of Emphasis

I set out to accomplish being good at rails and being better at testing.  Overall, I feel that I accomplished this goal.  

## Areas of Growth

I struggled most with the cart stuff because I thought I needed to have it all memorized for the final (which I do now have memorized!).
I grew the most as a more seasoned programmer, knowing what is possible with programming and knowing what is not possible.  I also feel much better about testing and problem solving.  

## Blog Post

Giving the world what they want, articles about HTML Form Input Types!  I wanted to do Vim but that was even too ridicelous for me.  
https://medium.com/@BretFunk/html-form-input-types-4cafa73c6156
-----------------------

## B: Individual Work & Projects

I really enjoyed the projects this mod and my groups were great.  It is fun to be able to build things I can show my family (even if they are not that impressed).

#### Bike-Share

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/bretfunk/bike-share)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/bike-share)

(description)
In a group setting of four, build a 'bike share' app in Sinatra.  Build databases and code to seed those databases with real data.  CRUD functionality for stations, trips and weather and include many Active Record and SQL analysis methods.  

(your goal and role in the project)
My goal was to be the workhorse and I felt I accomplished this.  I wrote a large part of the project and did Trips almost singlehandly (the hardest section).  I had a great group and they taught me alot about my strengths and weaknesses in a group setting (as former military and a small biz owner I am very 'work first-ask questions later' and that can be problamiatic.  

(reflection on project)
Bike Share was my favorite project.  I really enjoyed CRUD and the Active Record analysis.  

Feedback from Mike:

Complete through 8.
Errors! (As in it tells you about them)
Controller has one busy method/route.

1. Functional Expectations
2: Application has some small missing base functionality

2. ActiveRecord
3: ActiveRecord methods generally live in the appropriate model, but some Ruby is used to organize data after database queries. A project at this level may have some queries that have not produced the correct results based on the expectations described, but in those cases the query was still generally on the right path and demonstrated some minor misunderstanding.

3. User Experience and Conventions
4: Project uses Sinatra methods and ERB templates to display both resources and non-resource related views with appropriate routes, and HTTP verbs. All functionality can be accessed in the application where expected based on the spec. User experience is exceptional ('client ready') and all pieces of the application can be accessed without entering addresses manually in the navbar.

4. Code Organization/Quality
3: Some logic not related specifically to HTTP requests/resesponses remains in the main application file. Some methods may be slightly long, or follow unexpected patterns. Limited logic may leak into the views.

5. Testing
4: Application is broken into components which are well tested in both isolation and integration using appropriate data

6. Working Collaboratively
3: Good use of branches, pull requests, and a project-management tool.

#### Mix Master

* [GitHub URL] https://github.com/bretfunk/mix_master  
* [Original Assignment]http://backend.turing.io/module2/projects/mix_master/1_getting_started

(description)
This was a fun project but the first project that took so long I couldn't do it twice over the weekend.  I was exhausted by the end but really learned alot.  It was a while ago but I think I tried to move beyond bootstrap for this one too.  

#### Rails Mini-Project

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/bretfunk/ideabox)
* [Original Assignment](http://backend.turing.io/module2/projects/mini-project)

(description)
I did the basic IdeaBox program and although sad at my lack of creativity I was really happy I chose this project.  As I told Lauren in my review, I started my first days in Vim doing the styling for this and it was HARD.  I finished my project early so I could do Blogger twice to practice the basics and practice Vim.

(your goal for the project)
My goal for the project was solidifying the basics.  I felt like that was the case.  The only real issue I had was with including photos to the ideas show pages.  I can't remember the issue but it was somehow related to the Rails Mass Migration protection but once Rachel and I figured that out I was good-to-go.  I sent it to my mother.  

(reflection on project)
I liked this project and I am happy that I spent the extra time working on the basics (doing Blogger twice) then spending it doing styling.  Nothing against styling but I want to be a great programmer so doing the basics gave me more value (even if it didn't show in the in-class assessment).

#### Little Shop

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/jtruong2/little_shop)
* [Original Assignment](http://backend.turing.io/module2/projects/little_shop)

(description)

Build a functional ecommerce site with a group of four.  For us we did a pizza place.  This was a GREAT group of folks and we all knew our stuff so well we did most things together because we moved so quickly and only broke things up at the end.  I enjoyed this project and working with Will, Eddie and Jimmy. 

(your goal and role in the project)
Since I was learning Vim I did most of the typing for the first few days (my group was very compassionate).  Since we were moving so quickly we did most things together and met over the weekend but towards the end of the week we broke things up.  I spent MTuW doing the Admin and authorization code.  The only admin parts I didn't write were the Orders.

(reflection on project)
Fun project, great group.  I was pretty hard on myself after the in-class assessment and my group went out of their way to make me feel better and offered time off if I needed it(I didn't take it).  We moved so quickly that we planned on doing extensions from the start.  A very smart and hardworking group of folks.  

-----------------------

## C: Final Assessments

(how did you do on written and timed independent?)
My timed independent assessment was easily the worst thing I have done at Turing.  I am not exactly sure what happened but I used the rails shortcut to make a jointable following the docs (create_join_table :job :tag) and it didn't create the jointable correctly and I never could recover despite trying everything.  I spent the last 30 minutes just bypassing the jointable and writing code as if it worked (even though I couldn't test!) so I could show you that I still knew the direction to go even if I wasn't actually making progress.  I do not feel it represents my abilities or is a reflection of how much I have absorbed this module but it is I who created this mess so I accept my fate.  Making a join table and debugging it if it doesn't work correctly is not asking a lot and I should have been able to do it.  In fact, I went home and created the join table with a normal migration and it worked just fine.  I think I should have just deleted and started over but with a timed assessment it is easy to get stressed about time.  
My written went well and was a representation of of my knowlege (although I do not understand why I lost half a point for sessions, I feel that my answer was solid!).

-----------------------

## D: Community

I was less involved than last Mod but this Mod I collected my classmates unused phones and took them to Ecuador to give to poor folks.  JF, Jim and Eddie all gave me phones.  I also did a national interview for Treehouse as a veteran coder and plugged Turing.  I also belonged to the Lovelace Posse and really enjoy those folks.  We mostly went to the bar and it was great to be able to ask upper Mod students questions in a more comfortable environment.  It is a bizzare feeling that someone six weeks ahead of you is somehow superior to you so when they talk about bombing mid-mod evals and other things it makes you feel better, ha.  I also tried to do a much better job this mod of helping others.  I reached out to a few Mod1 folks and helped some of my Mod2 classmates on projects when I knew the answer.  
I don't think the posse experience helped me grow as a professional but it was nice to talk to others going through the same environment.  I even got to work on Mythical Creatures in JS!

Gear-Ups
I verymuch enjoyed the gearups on giving feedback, a crucial skill in the real world.  I thought the "ally" gear-up was executed poorly.  Our class felt that could have been a good discussion but seemed to be overly aggresive in the articles chosen to represent the topics.  I think the topic is great but a less aggressive way of talking about this (such as with the privlidge lesson) would have not turned so many people off.  

-----------------------


## E: Module Outcomes

(anything else you'd like to share about this module?)
Overall, I really enjoyed this module and feel as though I gave it my best.  I am obviously really mad at myself for such a poor performance on the timed assessment (I usually do well on those!) but shit happens.  I feel that my scores on paper do not reflect my abilites but hopefully the work I did on my other projects and the mid-mod and written give a better overall picture.  

### Self-Assessed Outcome
PROVISIONAL, redo the timed assessment or another project of the instructors choosing (I have already redone the project to show you on Thursday)
Without bombing the in-class assement I would have def said PROMTED, for what it is worth.  

(PROMOTED, PROVISIONAL, RETAINED, or EXCUSED)

------------------

## Final Review

### Notes

( Leave blanks for reviewers )

### Outcome

PROMOTED

