# Blythe (Tricia) McFall - (M1) Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

(What did you set out to accomplish this module?)
My personal goal for this module was to learn as much about the Ruby language as possible in order to develop the start of a solid foundation of knowledge.  I believe I learned an incredible amount in a very short period of time.  Initially, this didn't feel very good, but in hindsight what I initially set out to accomplish has come to fruition.  I've learned many of the core Ruby fundamentals and my foundation, which may not be completely solid, has the framing and potential to support additional information going forward.  

## Rubric Scores

* **A: End-of-Module Assessment**: 2
* **B: Individual Work & Projects**: 2
* **C: Group Work & Projects**: 2
* **D: Professional Skills**: 3
* **E: Community Participation**: 2

-----------------------

## A: End of Module Assessment

I believe I failed the end of module assessment.  For my final project, I chose to work on the Event Manager tutorial, instead of the Event Reporter project.  I needed to understand how everything worked, and I felt like the tutorial offered a better learning experience than the frustration the project would have elicited.  

I'm sure most of the instructors probably think I copied and pasted the code in, but I typed it in myself (even handwriting it) and made sure everything worked as I expected it to.  I often had to stop to correct errors that appeared and review concepts I was not familiar with.  

If that makes me wrong, or a bad student, I disagree.  For the first time since I started here at Turing I feel like I got to expend some of my intellectual energy in a positive way that not only taught me how to code, but reminded me how much fun it is.

## B: Individual Work & Projects

#### (Credit Check)

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/bmcfall/Week1Project)
* [Original Assignment](http://backend.turing.io/module1/projects/credit_check)

The original assignment centered around creating a program using the Luhn algorithm to validate account numbers for credit cards.

My project wasn't scored, because I didn't push it up to the GitHub repository by the deadline.

There weren't any evaluation scores, since I didn't push up to my repository in time.

#### (Jungle Beat)

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/bmcfall/Week2Project)
* [Original Assignment](http://backend.turing.io/module1/projects/jungle_beat)

The original assignment centered around creating a linked list.

- Should be committing code in chunks
- Should be testing ALL functionality, i.e. reading AND writing to next_node
- Test append should append multiple nodes

Ruby Syntax & Style:            3
Breaking Logic into Components: 2
Test-Driven Development:        2
Version Control:                2
Functionality:                  2

#### (Event Reporter)

* [GitHub URL](None)
* [Tutorial](https://github.com/turingschool/curriculum/blob/master/source/projects/eventmanager.markdown)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/curriculum/blob/4814d5517ed3a6cd33e717df535cdb0c0c5a9b8a/source/projects/event_reporter.markdown)

This project builds on the lessons learned in was supposed to build on concepts learned in the Event Manager tutorial to focus on fundamental Ruby style/concepts.

Ruby Syntax & Style:            0
Breaking Logic into Components: 0
Test-Driven Development:        0
Version Control:                0
Functionality:                  0

I got the impression the work I did on the Event Manager tutorial wasn't of any real value at the academic level.  I, however, learned a considerable amount, much more then I feel I've learned under the duress of other projects assigned over the past six weeks.

## C: Group Work & Projects

### Projects

#### (Night_Writer)

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/murphlee85/Night_Writer)
* [Original Assignment](http://backend.turing.io/module1/projects/night_writer)

Create a program that can convert English text to Braille, and in return, accepts Braille which is converted to English text.

- Application does not run
- Tests are often missing the assertions necessary
- Watch your whitespace and unnecessary line breaks in testing and in code
- Remember SRP - Single Responsibility Principle - when it comes to your code - methods should only do ONE thing per method,

Ruby Syntax & Style:            2
Breaking Logic into Components: 3
Test-Driven Development:        2
Version Control:                2
Functionality:                  1

None, specifically.

## D: Professional Skills
I found the professional development skill sessions vital.  Learning what my strengths are and how I can leverage them is incredibly valuable.  In return, have the courage to introspectively evaluate my weaknesses shows me the areas I need to encourage myself to evaluate and work with in a different, more positive manner.  

### Gear Up
#### (Strengths Finder)

* [GitHub URL](
https://github.com/turingschool/career-development-curriculum/blob/master/module_one/intro_strengthsfinder_session.md)

I learned during the course of the Strengths Finder session that I have strengths I didn't realize, like the strength of harmonious.  This was not something I anticipated, but also wasn't surprised by.  I've been keeping the peace in one manner or another since I was a teenager, including in professional environments.

#### (Working Styles)

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/turingschool/career-development-curriculum/blob/master/module_one/working_styles.md)

The working styles session regarding ambiverts, extroverts and introverts was AMAZING!  I've been told I'm like a chameleon and that I can somehow blend into any environment and I believe that is due in part to the ambivert flexibility I'm able to utilize.  I still lean to the introverted portion of the spectrum though.  I've notice here at Turing, instigating conversations, interacting with large groups and being in noisy environments is incredibly taxing.  My saving grace is my walking commute home in the evenings though.  There's nothing like a little bit of nature to clear the brain fog.

#### (Learning to Pair)

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/turingschool/career-development-curriculum/blob/master/module_one/learning_to_pair.md)

Yet another great session on the agile practice, and establishing relationships within a professional environment.  It's hard to believe, but having a good working partnership with people you working with directly and indirectly is imperative for career success.  The DTR template is an excellent tool and should be utilized in every organization.

#### (Feedback I)

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/turingschool/career-development-curriculum/blob/master/module_one/feedback_i.md)

I wish they would teach this in high school, college and every other academic setting.  It's a huge win when you can give someone feedback about what they're doing well, while also giving them kinds suggestions on what they could do better in the future.  I believe this is probably my favorite session, because it was the most challenging in terms of the question:  "How do I say this without sounding like a jerk?"

#### (Story Telling and Strengths)

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/turingschool/career-development-curriculum/blob/master/module_one/strengths_and_storytelling.md)

In the advent of less is more, honing our story down to a very limited, but succinct message is imperative.  I can't imagine how I've survived through interviews and industry inquisitions without this skill.  I plan to refine my story and to really focus on the best parts of my life, while honoring the difficult times in my life and what they taught me.

#### (Developer Identity)

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/turingschool/career-development-curriculum/blob/master/module_one/developer_identity.md)

The Developer Identity session was very helpful.  I was able to get my LinkedIn profile updated, create a Twitter account and update my GitHub account as well.  These are very helpful tools for anyone in the job market, but are a must have for developers.  There's no better way to show off your skillset and to support those in the industry that you work with, or very simply appreciate.


## E: Community Participation

### Playing a Part

I've cleaned in the kitchen and working areas around the classroom on the days I was responsible.  At various times, I've worked with other students on how to apply methods correctly and what arguments to provide. I've also participated in as many of the school activities as possible.

------------------

## Final Review

### Notes

( Leave blanks for reviewers )

### Outcome

( Leave blanks for reviewers )
