# Daniel Grund - M2 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

learn the fudamentals of react and get a better grasp of javascript,
 become a better member of the turing community. I accomplished the first well,
 and struggled with the second but made a few strides. I believe I do well at
 pairing with my own mod and helping people solve problems with their code, but
 am not good at pairing with mod 1 students, mostly because I don't know how to
 jump into a foreign codebase and find my way around.

## Rubric Scores

* **A: End-of-Module Assessment**: 3
* **B: Individual Work & Projects**: 3
* **C: Group Work & Projects**: 3
* **D: Professional Skills**: 3
* **E: Feedback & Community Participation**: 3

-----------------------

## A: End of Module Assessment

Comments:

* developer is confident!
* workflow is a1
* developer communicated very well
* small syntax


* Progression/Completion
	* 3: Developer is able to implement solutions at the speed of a junior developer.

* JavaScript Style
	* 3: Developer solves problems with a balance between conciseness and clarity and often extracts logical components

* Workflow
	* 4: Developer is a master of their tools, efficiently moving between phases of development

* Collaboration
	* 	4: Developer actively seeks collaboration both before implementing, while in motion, and when stuck


## B: Individual Work & Projects

Built redoNumberGuesser with working guess count, guess history display, and scoring system extensions as well as a running set of enzyme tests.

Learned the basics of component structure by hacking through weatherly a half dozen times

Started learning the basics of data structures in the singly linked list friday classes w/ kasimir and meeka.


## C: Group Work & Projects

This module we had an introduction to refactoring with the 2DoBox project, then
an intro to react and APIs with weatherly, followed by using firebase with a
chat application, and closing out with a fancy ideabox deployed to firebase.

### 2DoBox

* https://github.com/DanGrund/2DoBox-Pivot
* http://frontend.turing.io/projects/2DoBox-Pivot

An introduction to pivoting an existing codebase, analyzing accessibility
issues, and an introduction to webpack.

##### comments

Specification Adherence
3 - The application consists of one page with all of the major functionality being provided by jQuery. No approach was taken that is counter to the spirit of the project and its learning goals. There are no features missing from above that make the application feel incomplete or hard to use.

Accessibility
3.5 - The application has a strong accessibility presence. The developer showed a strong effort to keep accessibility in mind from the beginning of the project. The application has 0-3 aXe-core violations.

User Interface
3 - The application has many strong pages/interactions, but a few holes in lesser-used functionality. The application less than 3 aXe-core violations

HTML Style
3: Developer solves structural problems with a balance between conciseness and clarity. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code and every tag and selector is doing.

JavaScript Style
3- Application is thoughtfully put together with some duplication and no major bugs. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code is doing.

Utilization of es6
3 - Developer has used one new es6 feature in their code. Developer should be able to speak to what the feature does and why it improves the code for future developers. Developer has zero instances of mismatching es5 and es6 style in any specific file.

Testing
Provisional - need one piece broken out and unit tested (DONE!)
3 - Project has a running test suite that tests and multiple levels but fails to cover some features. The application makes some use of feature testing.

Workflow
3 - The developer makes a series of small, atomic commits that document the evolution of their application. There are no formatting issues in the code base.


### ChatApp1C-809 aka Shoot-The-Breeze

* https://github.com/DanGrund/chatApp
* http://frontend.turing.io/projects/shoot-the-breeze.html

this fly chat app will destroy AIMs market share with its feature-filled
functionality

#### comments

* solid components
* developers understand where state needs to go
* would like to see more pure functions and helpers
* that would also step up your testing game.

Specification Adherence
3 - The application consists of one page with all of the major functionality being provided by React. No approach was taken that is counter to the spirit of the project and its learning goals. There are no features missing from above that make the application feel incomplete or hard to use.

Component Architecture
3.5 - Application is broken in out into at least 6 components that properly encapsulate functionality. There is no more than one component that could be broken down into composite parts.

User Interface
3 - The application has many strong pages/interactions, but a few holes in lesser-used functionality.

CSS/Sass Style
3: Application is thoughtfully put together with some duplication and no major bugs. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of CSS/Sass is doing.

JavaScript Style
3- Application is thoughtfully put together with some duplication and no major bugs. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code is doing.

Testing
3 - Project has a running test suite that tests and multiple levels but fails to cover some features. All functionality is covered by tests. The application makes some use of feature testing.

Workflow
4 - The developer effectively uses Git branches and many small, atomic commits that document the evolution of their application.

Code Sanitation
4 - Zero complaints

Design
3 - The application has a strong approach to layout and content hierarchy, but typography and color choices are lacking. The evaluator has several recommended changes to improvement.

### Fancy Linked List aka FireBae

* https://github.com/DanGrund/Daily-Bullet
* http://frontend.turing.io/projects/fire-bae.html

We endeavored to port Bullet Journal from a pen&paper system to a react, and
failed miserably. but I think I'm going to keep chipping away at this one
because I really dig the idea and think I can make it work with a few more
components and a bit more knowledge.

### comments

* components were great!
* loved the breaking out of state!
* could use some small refactoring
* tests were good. would like to see more testing of state and the ui.

Specification Adherence
3 - No approach was taken that is counter to the spirit of the project and its learning goals. There are no features missing from above that make the application feel incomplete or hard to use.

Risk Taking and Creativity
3 - The project shows that the developers carefully considered their approach and were able to implement concepts taught over the last two weeks. The application shows evidence that developers dug deep into documentation for the technologies they used and experimented with different approaches.

Design
3 - The application has a strong approach to layout and content hierarchy, but typography and color choices are lacking. The evaluator has several recommended changes to improvement.

User Interface
3 - The application has many strong pages/interactions, but a few holes in lesser-used functionality.

HTML Style
3.5: Developer solves structural problems with a balance between conciseness and clarity. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code and every tag and selector is doing.

CSS/Sass Style
3: Application is thoughtfully put together with some duplication and no major bugs. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of CSS/Sass is doing.

JavaScript Style
3.5- Application is thoughtfully put together with some duplication and no major bugs. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code is doing.

Testing
3 - Project has a running test suite that tests and multiple levels but fails to cover some features. All functionality is covered by tests. The application has robust unit tests and makes some use of feature testing where appropriate and applicable.

Workflow
4 - The developer effectively uses Git branches and many small, atomic commits that document the evolution of their application.

Accessibility
3.5 - The application has a strong accessibility presence. The developer showed a strong effort to keep accessibility in mind from the beginning of the project. The application has 0-3 aXe-core violations.

Code Sanitation
4 - Zero complaints

## D: Professional Skills
* no personal site update, but I have ideas on what i want to do with it now to make it wavy 🌊 🌊 🌊
* trello job board: https://trello.com/b/peZWgM6q/dan-grund-job-search

#### cold emails email to meg copied below

Hey Meg,

I need to preface this summary by mentioning that I’m not seeking a full time job after completing Turing as I have my store opening on track for September and feel like its a waste of a potential employers time to join a team for 4-5 months, so I instead reached out to friends in the industry to learn more about short term freelance work for jr. devs at their firms and others around town. 
Over the christmas break I sat down for coffee with Liz Henderson, a senior react dev at BrandFolder in RiNo, and discussed the Denver freelance market in general, as well as brandfolder and the stack they use there, which matches up well with turing’s curriculum.
I then had drinks with Jake Sutton, who manages the engineers at Invoca about what he looks for in jr. dev hires. Both Jake and Liz have/had turing grads on their team and spoke highly of the quality of work coming out of the school. 
I have coffee scheduled with Frankie Bushnell of Cirro to discuss how they utilize freelancers, and lastly I have beers scheduled with Drew Dahlman at Legwork to discuss the use of javascript for visualization work and other creative utilizations of js. 

Best, 

Dan Grund

#### project management strategies

We effectively used a kanban board to delegate responsibilites, though I believe for the scale of school projects just using github Issues is plenty effective. Regular slack checkins with group members working remotely helped a ton keeping everyone on track and moving forward. seeking outside help and guidance when necessary also propelled a project forward.

#### handling feedback

I wish more people would tell me how I suck so I can improve more. I don't take any negative feedback personally and just want to do better. blah. anyhow, I try to take any negative feedback and interpret it from their point of view and try to understand how I can change to be better on it.

### Gear Up
#### MicroAggrerssions

* [https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/microaggressions_original.markdown] ()

This was a really interesting gear up focused on how the little things we say in passing can have magnified effects on other people. It taught me to be even more concious of everything I do and to be understanding of other people's views on the world and how everything we do has an effect. 
 
#### Mapping Journey


* [https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/journey-mapping.markdown]()

My group bailed on this one and I got sandwiched into a group making a weird map for how to learn to learn to code that didn't make sense and was more frustrating than anything else. I spent a year and a half iterating through a single menu and set of service processes to improve user experience from before they even stepped foot in line to order, I think I grasp how to recognize and improve upon a user, experience.

#### Grit (which is not resiliance)

* [https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/grit.markdown]()

If the going gets tough the tough get their wealth out of america and into a trust in the cook islands, or soemthing like that. Grit is about pushing through extreme circumstances to reach a goal because you have passion and drive.     
Work With Purpose, it's the Japanese way. and they do everything better over there. 
    
brainstorm 2-3 ways you can imbue your work over the next week and next inning to be more "filled with purpose."

  1. focus more on creative js projects in my free time. doing more stuff with webGL, canvas, and threeJS and shader libraries is something that I can really spend my free time reading about and implementing on a small scale to get impressive results. 
  2. realize that it's a team effort, and I can explain concepts well enough to help others do better work.
  3. better works means better pay. #hustlegang 

### Professional Development Workshops

#### Cold Outreach

* [Cold Outreach](https://github.com/turingschool/professional_skills/blob/master/module_two/cold_outreach.md)

	summaried by: 
	* find people w/ 2nd or 1st connects on the linkedIns, send em an intro note and a connection req, ask em out to beverages making sure to note the specific date and time and an alternate scheduling suggestion and a brief 'I wanna learn moar about what u do at ur agency and what u think about the industry and stuff' and yeah. don't be disappointed if some people don't respond, they can't all be first round pics. 
	
#### Networking

* [Workshop URL](https://github.com/turingschool/professional_skills/blob/master/module_two/networking.md)

	summaried by:
	* have a short bio ready in ur back pocket (fig. not lit.) to quickly introduce/sell urself but leave em wanting more. ask for a card or contact info, make a few quick notes when you've parted ways and they can't see you 🌛 


#### Agile

* [Workshop URL](https://github.com/turingschool/professional_skills/blob/master/module_two/agile_practices_project_management.md)

I should've taken notes at this one. constant iteration is a fantastic model IMO, and should be implemented in more industries. regularly scheduled roll outs that push the tiniest of features/bugfixes at a short interval is the new norm. massive version revisions spaced a year apart with no updates in between will leave a fucking window open for the competition to sneak in. 


#### Johari-Window

* [Workshop URL](https://github.com/turingschool/professional_skills/blob/master/module_two/johari_window_activity.md)

It was fascinating to see that I had little crossover between the way people view me and my opinion of myself, though apparently I agree that I'm adaptable, independent, knowledgeable, logical, giving, reflective


#### Finding Opportunities

* [Workshop URL](https://github.com/turingschool/professional_skills/blob/master/module_two/finding_opportunities.md)

you meet people in the weirdest places. always keep ur ear 👂🏽 to the streets 🚦. this does not make it ok to try to start a conversation with the stranger at the next urinal. not ok. 

## E: Feedback and Community Participation

### Giving Feedback

* Noah Peden - Noah, your humor kept us going through some dark places sunday. bless. I'd suggest you focus on checking error messages if something goes wrong, and only changing one thing at a time when troubleshooting things. I think it'll benefit you greatly to be able to break things down to one line or one character and debug from that. Keep cranking fam!
* Annastasia Psitos - Firstly, chatapp 1C-809 forever. AOL Instant Messenger won't know what hit em. I appreciate your level headed approach to the project, ability to analyze and troubleshoot through the development cycle, and your patience as I tried to solve little hickups in the implementation. Your organization and scheduling was very efficient as well. I think we spent equal times driving the code along, which I appreciated as well. I can't think of an immediate area of imporovement to suggest, you were a very well rounded pairing partner. 
* Jeff Buss-Professional Love Notes: You know, I'm really fucking glad you decided to skip your flight home to come interview for that job, and then stuck through that miserable winter (these gear ups on grit and resiliance have me rolling my eyes and thinking, "shit, I spent a winter trying to cook outside in single-digit temperatures while losing money I didn't have hand over fist, all because I had some dumbass glimmer of hope that the next summer would be better and Jeff's constant positivity and assurance to keep me grounded, I don't need a lesson on fuckin grit"). I want to say you should spend less time overthinking problems and more time driving forward, but only do that when you're working with anybody else. That overthinking and detail-oriented focus balances out my more sporadic and impulsive drive and I think between the two of us it makes for an interesting center path. We're gonna do some wavy things in the years to come. Namaste, Garbage recognize garbage. 
`Jeff Buss "I already ran reduce, and it just returned
 ‘namaste ur garbage'"`
* Lauren Pesce - Lauren, great job on the styling and aesthetic choices on dailyBullet, I think they ring true to the analog nature of bullet journaling. Good work driving while we assembled the component structure. If I were to suggest an area of improvement, I'd say don't be afraid of making your voice heard. I think every time you contribute, it's a meaningful addition and helps with troubleshooting and growing the project, and every team can use more of that! Thanks for putting in the hours to get this one done, it was a tough one. 




### Being a Community Member
#### leaving feedback

* Jeff Buss 
Dan Grund is a pile of garbage. He is an offensive, vile person with a heart of gold.  Dan gets frustrated easily, but for some reason not while inside the walls Turing as far as I've seen. I think it has something to do w/ it being easier than running a food truck. IDK, maybe he'll have a meltdown soon. Please let me know if the situation arises, as I am the most capable of handling them. Also be wary if he decides the team needs to pivot. You could end up at Restoration Hardware on a school night. I guess you just have to enjoy it, because it’s happening. His logical thought-process, keen wit, and well-curated wardrobe make working w/ him a most enjoyable experience overall. 10/10 experience, not sorry that he'll never be able to get rid of me.

* Megan Brown - dan is a great pairing partner. he was very helpful in going through the code and making suggestions as to how to tackle problems. his methodical coding is admirable and so is his pleasant dissposition.

* Lauren Pesce - It was so clear to me that Dan is passionate about his work and is willing to spend time and effort to make his code the best it can be. He had a positive attitude and was flexible  when it came to work time/ pairing.  He came up with the concept for our project (Daily Bullet), which I thought was creative and practical.

* Annastasia Psitos - It is the best chat app, the greatest chat app. Working with Dan was an experience I would happily repeat again. He communicates well and is very organized. I appreciated that he wanted to start the project by wireframing and making sure we were both on the same page as far as overall set up. We both drove an equal amount which I think helped both of us further our education. He was always up front about scheduling, which allowed me to plan, as well, which I appreciated. I can't think of any pressing things that need improvement. Keep up the great work!

* Noah Peden "Thanks for being a great partner and carrying the team through with your knowledge of object oriented programming and trying to let others drive occasionally. I would suggest that before you take someone's code and completely refactor you make sure you ask them if that's ok and completely explain what you're about to do and why you think it's important.  Thanks again for driving us through a four day grind and I look forward to working with you more!"

### Playing a Part

I failed pretty hard at this, though I tried to take initiative on managing the pairing spreadsheet and actually pairing with mod 1 students as much as I could. 

------------------

## Final Review

### Notes

We are so grateful for you, and love the spirit you give to this community.

Pass. Welcome to Mod 3.

### Outcome

* **A: End-of-Module Assessment**: 3
* **B: Individual Work & Projects**: 3
* **C: Group Work & Projects**: 3
* **D: Professional Skills**: 3
* **E: Feedback & Community Participation**: 3.5
