# Keji Amos - (M3) Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

Crushing the game

## Rubric Scores

* **A: End-of-Module Assessment**: Pass
* **B: Individual Work & Projects**: Pass
* **C: Group Work & Projects**: Pass
* **D: Professional Skills**: Pass
* **E: Community Participation**: Pass

-----------------------

## A: End of Module Assessment

Passed!

## B: Individual Work & Projects

Working individually this mod has built-up my confidence as a developer.

#### Personal Project (Handout)

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/kamos1/handout)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/self-directed-project.html)

Handout is a Slack app that allows users to give each other wins and losses. It also tracks the wins and losses so users can look them up.

(evaluation comments)

(evaluation scores)
### Feature Delivery

#### 1. Completion
4: Developer completed all the user stories and requirements set in check-ins in timely manner.

#### 2. Organization
3.5: Developer used a project management tool to keep their project organized.

### Technical Quality

#### 1. Test-Driven Development
3: Project shows adequate testing (90% - 95% coverage).

#### 2. Code Quality
4: Project demonstrates exceptionally well factored code.

### Product Experience

#### 1. User Experience
3: Project exhibits a production-ready user experience.

#### 2. Performance
3: Project pages load on average under 400 milliseconds.

## C: Group Work & Projects

### Projects

Working in groups was exciting this mod. We were able to actually divide up the work load and put our pieces together

#### HeadCount 2.0

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/kamos1/headcount2.0)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool-examples/headcount2.0)

HeadCount 2.0 analyzes attendance data from the different counties in Colorado.

(evaluation comments)

Fix functionality for iteration 5. Legend to understand data. Did you need both search state & district state? Question to always ask yourself is do I need State here. Grades will change for propTypes fixed, iteration 5 done, CSS Legend.

(evaluation scores)

#### Specification Adherence
2 - The application is in a usable state, but is missing 1 of the features outlined in the specification above.

#### Code Quality
3 - Developer appears comfortable in React demonstrated gaps in knowledge of how the tools should be used and/or the app contains unrefactored code.

#### PropType Implementation
Pass - Proptype validation is implemented for any component receiving props.
Missing one PropTypes on CompareCard

#### CSS/Design
2.5 - Developer has made intentional design decisions to create a user friendly application but Louisa would be mad.

#### Testing
2.5 - A valid attempt was made to test functionality with obvious gaps where functionality is not tested

(feedback to me)

#### SWApi Box

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/kamos1/swapi-box)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/swapi-box.html)

SWApi Box is an app that pulls in and displays planet, character, and vehicle data from the Star Wars API.

(evaluation comments)

(evaluation scores)

#### Specification Adherence
3.5 - The application completes all 3 iterations.

#### Code Quality
3.5 - Developer appears comfortable in React. There are minor opportunities to refactor.

#### Design
3 - Some changes requested by evaluator.

#### Testing
4 - Every component is tested from both a unit and acceptance standpoint, all crucial functionality is tested

(feedback to me)
I really enjoyed working with you on this project. I never felt steamrolled. I thought as a team we did a good job with scheduling and Github work flow.

#### MovieTracker

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/kamos1/movie-tracker)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool-examples/movie-tracker)

MovieTracker is an app that uses data from the The Movie Database API. It allows users to create accounts and save movies to their favorites.

(evaluation comments)

(evaluation scores)

#### Specification Adherence
3: The application consists of one page with all of the major functionality being provided by React. No approach was taken that is counter to the spirit of the project and its learning goals. There are no features missing from above that make the application feel incomplete or hard to use.

#### Redux Architecture
3: At least one component is not connected with Redux appropriately. Application state is mutated by more than just Redux. The Redux store is missing application data that it should be handling.

#### Routing
3: Application is a single page and uses the React Router but does not display the appropriate components upon navigating.

#### JavaScript Style
3: Application is thoughtfully put together with some duplication and no major bugs. Group can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code is doing.

#### Testing
2.5: Project has sporadic use of tests at multiple levels. The application contains numerous holes in testing and/or many features are untested.

#### Workflow
3.5: The group makes a series of small, atomic commits that document the evolution of their application and it is clear who was responsible for what features.

(feedback to me)
Working with you for the first time on a project was awesome. Doubly, it was great to get to know you better throughout the course of this mod as well. You’re a super hard worker that makes some great stuff. It has been wonderful to hear your ideas and perspectives on each project or problem. Thanks for your patience with me as I sometimes struggled to wrap my head around new concepts. You have a definite knack for being a teacher, especially about code related information. Excited to see where Mod 4 takes us and the cohort.

## D: Professional Skills
[Deliverables](https://github.com/turingschool/career-development-curriculum/blob/master/deliverable_submissions/1701-f/keji_amos.md)

### Gear Up
#### Tragedy of the Commons

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/tragedy_of_the_commons.markdown)

* [Gist](https://gist.github.com/kamos1/2bb9e8021b59f5ed30d985631c84cc59)

#### MicroAggresions

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/microaggressions_group2.md)

* [Gist](https://gist.github.com/kamos1/118a4f2a975800497b885806a607f4e4)

#### Ethics and Technology of Snowden Leaks

* [GitHub URL](https://gist.github.com/blackknight75/c7ef4e8ef1a197d50593bce078fc9d7f)

* [Gist](https://gist.github.com/kamos1/c96483c617d501820b5157ea70fbe168)

## E: Community Participation and Feedback

### Feedback from a classmate:
You have been a huge help for me this mod. You were always willing to pair with me on an issue, and were very insightful when it came helping find a solution. Your understanding of Redux was a huge help during the week of Movie Tracker. Looking forward to further work.

### Playing a Part
* Participated in IronFE
* Co-Lead Phalka Posse

------------------

## Final Review

### Notes

( Leave blanks for reviewers )

### Outcome

PASS

* **A: End-of-Module Assessment**: PASS
* **B: Individual Work & Projects**: 4
* **C: Group Work & Projects**: 4
* **D: Professional Skills**: Pass
* **E: Community Participation**: 4
