# Jeff Buss - M1 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

* Reinforce knowledge of HTML/CSS
* Develop Javascript/jQuery skills
* Network with a new community of like-minded individuals
* Practice logical thinking
* Improve time management

## Rubric Scores

Fill in how you would grade yourself from 1-4 in the following categories this module:

* **A: End-of-Module Assessment**: 2.5
* **B: Individual Work & Projects**: 3
* **C: Group Work & Projects**: 3
* **D: Professional Skills**: 3
* **E: Feedback & Community Participation**: 3.5

-----------------------

## A: End of Module Assessment

### Evaluator: Louisa

### Progression/Completion
* soft 3 - Developer is able to implement solutions at the speed of an apprentice.

### JavaScript Style
* 2: Developer writes effective code, but does not breakout logical components

### Workflow
* 3: Developer demonstrates comfort with their tools and makes some use of keyboard shortcuts

### Collaboration
* 3: Developer lays out their thinking before attacking a problem and integrates feedback through the process

### Notes

Will retake 11/14


## B: Individual Work & Projects

### Personal Site

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/JeffBuss/PersonalSite)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/personal-site-first-draft.html)

Build a personal website that represents you and your personal brand. Focus on the structure of your HTML/CSS and content.

## C: Group Work & Projects

### Game Time

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/JeffBuss/gametime)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/game-time.html)

Build a game that is playable in the browser.

(evaluation scores - not available at time of writing in front end submissions section)

### Idea Box

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/esayler/linked-list)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/ideabox.html)

Build an application that lists your ideas, can sort them by a given rating, and saves them in local storage.
 
#### Evaluator: Bree

#### Specification Adherence

- 3 - The application consists of one page with all of the major functionality being provided by jQuery. No approach was taken that is counter to the spirit of the project and its learning goals. There are no features missing from above that make the application feel incomplete or hard to use.

#### HTML Style

- 4: Developer is able to craft HTML that is semantically correct and clearly organized. There are zero instances where an instructor would recommend taking a different approach. Developer writes markup that is exceptionally clear and well-factored. Application is expertly organized and logically structured with with a clear, thoughtful use of tags and selectors.

#### CSS Style

- 3: Application is thoughtfully put together with some duplication and no major bugs. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of CSS is doing.

#### JavaScript Style

- 3- Application is thoughtfully put together with some duplication and no major bugs. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code is doing.

#### Workflow

- 3 - The developer makes a series of small, atomic commits that document the evolution of their application. There are no formatting issues in the code base.

#### Collaboration

- 4 - Team members leverage github to have discussions about their solutions, track tasks/issues, and showcase a clear workflow process in their use of PRs.


### Linked List

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/jksmall0631/ideabox)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/linked-list.html)

Build an application that takes a website title and name, and lists them out.

#### Notes

* JavaScript needed refactoring, a bunch of long functions that needed to be broken down
* JavaScript was pretty DRY overall, but needed refactoring
* The event bubbling selections were too vague (using document instead of a specific container)
* Workflow was good technically, but there needed to be more conversation in pull requests
* Left in some dummy links in the HTML...shouldn't be there
* CSS was not DRY and could use some refactoring, but the styles matched the comp well

#### Rubric

#### Functional Expectations

- 4: Application meets all of the functional expectations in Phase Three.

#### Fundamental JavaScript Style

- 3: Application shows strong effort towards organization, content, and refactoring.
- **2.5**
- 2: Application runs but the code has long functions, unnecessary or poorly named variables, and needs significant refactoring.

#### Workflow

- 3: The developer makes a series of small, atomic commits that document the evolution of their application. There are no formatting issues in the code base.

#### HTML Style

- 3:  Developer solves structural problems with a balance between conciseness and clarity. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code and every tag and selector is doing.

#### CSS Style

- 3:  Application is thoughtfully put together with some duplication and no major bugs. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of CSS is doing.




### Number Guesser

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/dylanavery720/number_guesser)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/number-guesser.html)

Build a game where the user is trying to guess a number between 1 and 100.

#### Notes

* JavaScript functions could use some refactoring and dividing into smaller components
* Multiple query selectors that were repeated and not assigned to variables to reuse
* Attention to detail needed to match comp, some styling was a little off

#### Rubric

##### UX/UI Expectations

- 3: Application shows strong effort towards matching the comp, but some details have been missed. Any extensions are simple, clean design, content organization, and well thought out experience and user interactions.

##### Functional Expectations

- 3: Application meets all of the functional expectations in Phase Two

##### Fundamental JavaScript Style

- 3: Application shows strong effort towards organization, content, and refactoring




## D: Professional Skills

### Gear Up
#### Resilience

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/resilience.markdown)

This was definitely my favorite topic covered, but I would've liked to have seen some more relevant information about the subject than what was provided. The authors of the articles given didn't really seem to grasp the subject too well, and failed to present anything too terribly interesting. Overall I enjoyed this gear up the most though.

#### Introverts/Extroverts

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/introversion.markdown)

I found this gear up somewhat useful, and enjoyed the video. The discussion after the video seemed a bit strange and didn't seem to go much of anywhere, but overall I found the session to be interesting.

#### Rock the Vote

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/vote_your_conscience.markdown)

This was definitely my least favorite gear up. I do not enjoy discussing politics, nor did a single one of my group members. We made some amount of effort to get a legitimate discussion going, but really didn't get anywhere. Also we were not provided even close to enough time to review the materials provided.


### Professional Development Workshops

##### Resume [Link](https://resume.creddle.io/resume/g6wxvhzmznz)

##### LinkedIn [Link](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jeffbuss)


## E: Feedback and Community Participation

### Giving Feedback

#### Dylan Avery
* Excellent grasp of Javascript from the start
* Logical thinker
* Great at seeing the end result and working towards it, but w/ sub-par planning
* Very quick to bounce back from somewhat frequent discouragement
* Sloppy workflow and code structure

I couldn't ask for a better first partner. Dylan and I were a great team, and synergized very well together. Despite our inexperience, we both managed to hold our own and put together a functional product combining my previous knowledge of CSS/HTML w/ his knowledge of Javascript.

Dylan has a knack for looking at the end result, and then working backwards towards it. Despite frequent hang-ups, he is able to keep his cool. A positive attitude is extremely important in group work, and Dylan was at worst annoyed. Some might see his short bouts of negativity as an issue. I'd much prefer someone just get it out of their system quickly as he does though. A quick outburst of frustration was all that was needed before resuming the task at hand. He is great at establishing a goal, and then working quickly to reach it despite the hurdles involved.

This drive to get things done can lead to less-than-pretty results though. Often his code was visually/structurally a mess, but still worked. His workflow at the time was also sub-par and disorganized; using the mouse too much, keeping 100 tabs open, and not utilizing shortcuts. There was also a lack of planning going into the project, which would've helped us avoid some issues we ran into down the road.

I had an awesome time working w/ Dylan, and would happily do so again if he promises never to reload a page again by clicking on the button in chrome :) Free Gucci.

#### Mike Limberg
* Great workflow
* Excellent planning skills
* Awesome communication and pairing skills
* Very quick to get discouraged

Upon looking at the pairing list for Idea Box, I was very excited to see I'd be working w/ Mike. I'd considered him one of the people in class I connected w/ and could relate to most, and was not disappointed. We had very similar mindsets going into the project; preference for pair coding, desire to plan carefully prior to starting, ability to pivot and switch gears when things weren't going as expected, and willingness to stay late working. 

It was great to work with someone who was also consciously improving their workflow habits. I could tell he'd put a lot of thought into the most efficient ways to reach the end result via shortcuts, excellent typing habits, and logical movement throughout blocks of code. He is very driven to get the job done, and get it done well.

This desire to constantly reach the next step definitely lead to unnecessary frustration though. On more than one occasion he lost his cool. Nothing crazy at all, but it definitely lowered morale at times. He needs to realize that getting stuck for 2hrs b/c your javascript file isn't linked up due to a strange doubling of the HTML link to it on merge is what makes module 1 module fun. I laughed, and he should've too.

I had an awesome time working w/ Mike, and am excited to collaborate w/ him in the future.

#### Eric Sayler
* Excellent planning and organization
* Great mindset for working with code
* Skilled at explaining things
* Use of methods/software I was unfamiliar with was frustrating at times
* Slightly sub-par communication

Going into the project, I was a bit worried about working w/ Eric. He's that guy that uses VIM, and actually understands at least half of what is going on in class. I was pleasantly surprised with the results though :)

Eric is obviously very talented already, and regardless of his previous experience clearly has the right mindset for this type of work. He was rarely ever frustrated despite plenty of setbacks, and stayed confident that he could work his way through a problem. He was an excellent teacher whenever I didn't understand whatever witchcraft he was using that we'd never gone over in class, and was always happy to explain things. His desire to plan our attack before starting was greatly appreciated, and we stayed very well-organized throughout the project. His workflow is also amazingly efficient, and I'm not just enamored by VIM. Ok, fine, actually I think VIM is pretty awesome. 

At the time I thought it would've been nice if he hadn't used VIM, RegEx, or other similar sorcery. Looking back on it, I'm actually glad to have gotten an introduction to all of it though. Communication could use a bit of improvement, but wasn't an issue often. On larger, more complicated projects it potentially could've been though.

Overall it was a pleasure working with Eric, and I look forward to picking his brain about VIM setup once I have the time to get into it. I'm a sucker for elaborate keybindings :)  


#### Josh Small
* Very cool-headed and easy-going
* Excellent at analyzing problems
* Incredibly versatile
* Decent communication
* Mediocre workflow


Wait, I got paired w/ Mike AND Josh?!? The Turing gods hath shineth down upon me. Double the partners, double the fun. I was really excited to see I was working with Josh, and was not disappointed in the end result.

Josh has a great brain for problem-solving. Of all the people I paired with, he was the best at looking over at a block of code you were working on and telling you why the hell it wasn't working. He balances solo and group work flawlessly, and always knows which way he's going to accomplish a task best. His cool, calm demeanor was also a huge asset to the group. I see Josh as the most versatile, well-rounded person I paired with this mod. He's also very adaptable, and was happy to take on all of the HTML/CSS since I had handled most of that on the past two projects.

I believe Josh could greatly benefit from putting some time to improving his workflow. Reducing the use of the mouse, learning more keyboard shortcuts, and working on utilizing screen real-estate most effectively could be very beneficial to his studies at Turing. A bit more communication would've been nice as well, but I'm a social butterfly or whatever.

Can't wait to work with Josh again! This time we're going to link the shit out of our javascript file before we start coding.

#### Sam Johnson
* Great at problem-solving
* Excellent comprehension of the relationship between everything
* Great communication
* Good math/spacial thinking skills
* Works best solo
* Decent workflow

As someone who prefers to constantly pair code while solving problems and joking around with my partner, I was a bit worried going into this project w/ Sam. He always seemed like a super friendly, intelligent guy, but would definitely win the award for "most time spent w/ headphones on in class". I was pleasantly surprised by how well we worked together though.

Despite his preference often being to zone in on his work w/o discussion, he was always more than willing to take time to chat about what we were working on. Our daily schedules were also completely opposite, but we still stayed in constant communication throughout the project thanks to our newfound github expertise.

Sam definitely has a gift for realizing the relationships between seemingly unrelated functions/variables throughout multiple pages of code. I was often lost in the sea of connections we had created throughout this huge (by our standards) project, but Sam was always able to navigate it while thoroughly explaining how it worked. He definitely understands the bigger picture, and this was a huge help for me. He also has a great mind for mathematical/spatial thinking, and I don't know how I would've handled some of the canvas/collision detection sections w/o him.

Sam's workflow as far as keyboard shortcuts goes is solid. He could definitely benefit from setting up bash aliases, and trying to use the mouse a bit less though. I meant to mention the bash aliases a couple times, but forgot - hit me up if you want a hand with that Sam :)

Would happily work with him again!

#### Matt Kauffman

Hands down the most helpful of all the people I paired with. Incredibly knowledgable, yet still able to articulate things in a way that my ignorant ass could understand. Excellent balance between pointing people in the right direction w/o just giving them the answer, but still took the wheel for short periods of time when it was the most sensible option. Also was always available to make time for people and rarely said no despite often being constantly bombarded with questions.

#### Gabi Procell

I'm sad to say that I only had the pleasure of working with Gabi once. I posted in the 1608 slack channel while their portfolio defenses were going on asking if anyone was available to help, and she immediately got up to find me. I didn't even have to move a muscle (besides a few keystrokes), and had capable help at my side in a flash without further correspondence. She was unable to help me complete the test I was working on for Game Time, but it turns out it was essentially impossible. Regardless of it being missing from our test suite and a crucial test, we still ended up getting a 4 on testing. 10/10 - user experience rivaled Uber in both speed and willingness to work w/ the impossible.

#### Bree

Greetings ma'am! I found your overall teaching style to be the most well-rounded of the three. You struck an excellent balance between fun-loving, energetic instructor, and mildly-frightening head-master. At times I found your evil smirk as you made suggestions and asked doubt-inducing questions to be a bit off-putting, but overall the discussions we had were definitely well-received. You definitely have a very evil smirk when having these discussions if you're somehow not aware, and perhaps it could be toned down just a bit. It sometimes seems like you're gaining enjoyment out of messing w/ our heads lol :) I greatly appreciated your feedback on exercisms, and would like to see more feedback given from other instructors on personal work. See the general feedback for a short essay on this :)

#### Louisa

Your hair looks great, could use more magenta unicorn clips though. I really enjoyed your energy and teaching style, and found it to be the most engaging of the three instructors. I also greatly appreciated your strict adherence to our pomodoro schedule, as that is a huge help for me. I would've liked to see more feedback from you on lessons/projects/assessments/excercisms/etc, and felt that you were the least engaged of the three instructors in this area.

#### Robbie

Your lessons were incredibly well-thought-out, and delivered in a way that made everything incredibly easy to grasp. I would say that I took the most out of your lessons of the three instructors, and appreciate your ability to lay out complex concepts in a logical, simple-to-follow manor. Your feedback on assessments was by far the most helpful, and your assistance on projects/lessons always ended up being incredibly useful. At first you seemed a bit cold and reserved, but once you warmed up a bit in the last half of the module your sense of humor and personality was very well-received. Perhaps don't be so reserved in the beginning as you get to know the new module, and make an effort to connect w/ them on a personal level earlier on. 

#### General Feedback on Mod 1

Overall my experience at Turing has been fantastic. I've attended many different types of post-secondary schools, and this has by far been the most engaging, well-thought-out, and challenging programs. I have had no reservations in suggesting friends look into the school, and can't wait to see where this will take me. Y'all do an unbelievable job at admissions, and this student body is frighteningly intelligent, well-rounded, and interesting.

Personally I struggled with the fact that we were given no solo projects, and the solo lessons we received were seemingly never looked at. It was rather off-putting to spend the entire weekend working on a lesson that was "due" on Monday, and then literally never see a single line of feedback on anything solo for the entirety of the curriculum besides a few short comments on excercisms. I understand that this is a very self-driven curriculum and I should've just asked for a quick review of my work, but I feel that this shouldn't be required for every piece of solo work we complete throughout the module.

I believe that future students would GREATLY benefit from the first project being solo. Despite that I prefer to pair code, I would've been MUCH better off in the program had a really gotten a feel for where I was at personally before being thrown into groups. It's hard to gauge what your strengths and weaknesses in a subject are until you're forced to do it on your own. All the solo lessons we received were more of a "here's what it should look like, now do it again w/ these changes in format". I didn't realize until very late in the mod that when it comes to writing JS/jQ from the ground up I had very little clue what I was doing I was grasping the concepts, but not necessarily grasping how to implement and combine them into a working application on my own. 

I also would've liked to have more mock assessments, or perhaps one that was longer than 30min - especially for the final. I feel that 30min is not enough time to judge whether someone is capable of proceeding to the next module, but perhaps I'm mistaken there. Combined with the fact that all our projects were in pairs and our solo lessons were seemingly never looked at, I feel like instructors could be missing a lot of information on where students are at as far as their progress in the curriculum. I'm definitely not trying to say that my JS/jQ knowledge was at a passable level going into the final assessment, but I feel like many of my strengths and accomplishments went unacknowledged due to the systems in place. I know there is a rhyme and reason for everything at Turing though, and by the end I'm sure I'll understand :)




### Being a Community Member

#### Sam Johnson
Feedback from Gametime:

Hey Buss.  I had a great time working with you on this project.  I really appreciate and value your desire to learn and grow through project work and your openness and flexibility to different working styles.  I think we complimented each other well as partners for this project and got a lot of good work done as a result.

We got a 4 in Testing because of the work you did to get that done and I really appreciate that.  I also thought your work on the UX/UI and brick array logic jumped us forward and resulted in a really good final product.  I think both of our areas of code likely could use some refactoring but I think we were pretty aligned on what those areas was and what we’d do differently next time.  Thanks for your partnership on all of it.

One piece of constructive feedback I will share from my experience working with you is that I think, at times, you could be a bit more communicative about where you are and/or what you are working on.  I felt a bit in the dark about what your plan was and what you were working on this weekend and was a bit frustrated about that. I know we were on different schedules - which I am and was totally fine with - but I think a bit more communication would have helped me understand the places in the code I could be working on without having to be concerned that I might be duplicating work.  I don’t think this was a major issue at all - I think our communications as mostly very strong throughout the project - but figured I’d mention this as something to reflect on moving forward.  

Cheers! Have a great break dude!
-Sam

#### Mike Limberg

Feedback for Idea-box:

Awesome working with you dude! You’re a great addition to any team. Especially appreciated you keeping the team morale high. If I was stuck or frustrated by something you didn’t hesitate to call out that it’s not that big of a deal and we’ll figure it out. Very helpful and kept me from bringing the team to a dark place.

My feedback would be to ask more questions and make the team pause to go over things. You mentioned a few times that you wanted to take time to break down the code on certain pieces but never made sure it happened. Still down to go over it, but yea just speak up if you’re unclear so you can ensure you understand it all.

Overall great project and would gladly team up with you again on any future projects.

#### Josh small

My time working with Buss on Ideabox turned out to be very effective. The thing I enjoyed most about our partnership was your flexibility. As a group of three we had to find a way to juggle the limited responsibilities of html, css, and javascript. With you being 'the css wizard’ of 1610, I really appreciated that you were willing to set that aside to allow me to get more comfortable with styling. I know you consider Javascript one of your weak points but I feel you were able to contribute well on that front as well (I’m glad you got that sorting figured out because we weren’t coming close).

I would say to keep chugging with the javascript. You clearly understand the stuff when reading through it but can have difficulty getting started writing. Read books on it, do exercisms, rewrite code. Repetition. Repetition. Repetition. You’ll get it.

Overall, great partner. Would not hesitate to work with you again.

#### Eric Sayler

Feedback: Buss and I quickly established a good working relationship with an initial plan to pull off a divide and conquer approach. Although we spent significant time sitting next to each other working on the project, we should have paired more on code, especially JS.  Early on Buss clearly established that he was less comfortable with attacking JS first hand and I went along with the plan to work separately on our own strengths. However, I felt that this forced us into sticking mostly to our own workloads, and prevented Buss from asking more questions or be able/more willing to ask questions on JavaScript.  I believe I should have communicated more and explained more of what I was doing and why. Since I was worried that Buss wouldn’t get enough exposure to the JS, I should have left more opportunities for him to take more control of the project’s business logic so he could practice more JS in real time. While I occasionally explained what I was doing on the JS side of the project, I felt that we could have equalled the workload more to allow each other more appropriate exposure to all areas of the project’s development. Despite those shortcomings in communication, I really enjoyed working with Buss, his strong command of CSS was extremely valuable. I think we could have improved with actually pairing on JS instead of retroactively going over many of each other’s changes to the code base. Towards the end of the project, we did pair more on the final styling implementations, and this I enjoyed a lot! I was great working with Buss and I hope we’ll get to pair again on another project in the future in order to address some of the shortcomings in communication.

#### Dylan Avery

Hey Jeff, working with you was very good. It really couldn’t have gone more easily. It was definitely helpful to have someone whose brain was firing off when mine was not. The late night work session would have been a lot more painful without you to help me get over the walls that I would hit. You definitely have a gift for algorithmic thinking and tackling problems, and you aren’t happy until you have solved them. I was really impressed with how quickly you took to CSS, Im sure it would have been impossible for me to figure most of that stuff out on my own. You also did a great job of focusing on your own feature whilst letting me focus on mine.

Some constructive criticism I would have is to make sure to overly communicate if anything, so that there isn’t any confusion amongst partners. This was obviously especially important for us since we werent really using gitHub properly that first week. Also make sure to always run a bunch of tests on the final product before Evals to make sure that no weird bugs pop up at the last second.

Have a good Eval brother! Lets get it.

### Playing a Part

* Tried to always be a "cheerleader" of sorts, and keep morale high. In this line of work it's easy for people to get frustrated, and I'm excellent at getting people to step back and realize how unnecessary their frustrations can be at times.
* Spent the majority of my hours working outside of class at Blakesment or Gusto so I could continue meeting other members of the community. I have closed down both locations for the night 10+ times over the course of the module. In turn I am usually in charge of clean up, as this gets skipped over 50% of the time by both students and staff. 
* Always show up at Pourtions, and showed up or attempted to show up at all other out-of-class events
* Attended numerous meetups, and represented Turing to the best of my ability while networking with other people in the industry
* Although I didn't join one single posse, I have not missed a spike session. I've just been hopping around to whatever discussions interest me the most day-of, and have been very happy with my decision to do so as I feel I've had a very well-rounded set of spike sessions.
* Organized the end-of-module party at my house on the last day of class (which I'm now regretting a bit as I have my assessment re-take on Monday lol)
* Have made a strong effort to connect w/ everyone in the class outside the walls of Gusto

------------------

## Final Review

### Notes

( Leave blanks for reviewers )

### Outcome

PENDING
