# Jeff Buss - M3 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

* Reinforce knowledge of JS/React
* Learn router/redux
* Learn more complex testing methods
* Network within as well as outside the walls of touring
* Practice logical thinking
* Improve time management
* Find a job
* Find a girl who's into robots
* Make my mother proud
* Try not to hurt myself 

## Rubric Scores

Fill in how you would grade yourself from 1-4 in the following categories this module:

* **A: End-of-Module Assessment**: IDK yet, but if I don't pass I'm calling my mom immediately. She's a heavy investor in SkillsFund, so consider going easy on me
* **B: Individual Work & Projects**: 3
* **C: Group Work & Projects**: 3
* **D: Professional Skills**: 3
* **E: Feedback & Community Participation**: 3.914159 - I skipped a gear up to photoshop a "no artwork available" placeholder of a ketchup bottle smashed on the concrete for the movie-tracker project, and forgot to fill out a survey or three. Besides that I drink a lot of koolaid

-----------------------

## A: End of Module Assessment

[Github URL]()

PASS

## B: Individual Work & Projects

### Personal Site

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/JeffBuss/PersonalSite)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/personal-site-first-draft.html)

My garbage personal site. In my defense, I created it the second weekend of Turing. My CSS skills were above average then, so I didn't touch it for the entirety of this mod or the last. My bad team. Greyscale forever.

### Chuckles Norris

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/JeffBuss/chuckles-norris)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/walker-texas-rangerbox.html)

Build a Chuck Norris random joke generator using react/redux/router! I already disliked Chuck Norris, but now I can't even think about him. Even writing this right now is triggering. Loved the project otherwise, but ffs please find another API for future students to use. I'm embarrassed to even put this on resumes despite it being a great show of skill on a solo project.

### Self-Directed Project

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/JeffBuss/clandesdine)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/self-directed-project.html)

Organizing private dinner parties is a pain in the ass. You probably have the location locked down, a team of capable chefs, and all the equipment you need. Organizing your guests and receiving payment prior to the event is the hard part. 

The reach goal of this app is to create a singular portal for private, event-specific sign-up using an invitation code, details on the event, RSVP form to submit the details for your party, and a payment processing system to get the funds required in advance.

## C: Group Work & Projects

### Ripe Tomatoes

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/JeffBuss/movie-watcher)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/weather-forecast.html)
* [Grading Markdown]()

Build a sweet movie tracker app using react/redux/router that hits a super cool movie API. Handle login/favorites using an even cooler API built by Tman2272 himself. Sign in. Search movies. Favorite movies. Never sign out b/c the app is so awesome. Tomatoes everywhere. 

This was a great project overall, and I'd love to see more focus on working w/ APIs in the curriculum. A lesson or three more on that would be great at some point though. We literally only got one lesson on AJAX and one lesson on Firebase prior to this as far as APIs go.

### remEmber

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/JeffBuss/1610-remember-7)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/remember.html)
* [Grading Markdown]()

Rip off iOS notes using some really opinionated framework called Ember! Was really into Ember at first, but after diving deeper into it decided I hated it. Debugging it was super difficult, it didn't play well with Atom despite all of the packages I tried to install, and the dev-server was a nightmare for me personally. Maybe it was specific to my machine, but I literally wrote a bash function and system keybinding to restart the server b/c I ended up doing it so often lol. Testing was a BREEZE though, so that was nice.

The concepts we learned about version control in team environments were INCREDIBLY useful, but I would've much rather kept learning React. Would love to see this as a 3-4 person project in React with a well-thought-out list of features that could be worked on separately, but still required coordination/communication to avoid conflicts. Giving two people a very small handful of tasks that were almost all sequential in their necessary order of completion didn't seem like it accomplished the goal of teaching real-world production skills, but perhaps I'm off there.


#### Ultimate UX Design Challenge

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/ianlancaster/Ultimate-UX-Design-Challenge)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/ultimate-ux-ui-team-challenge.html)

Create wireframes and comps for a fitness app. Hand em off to another team. Receive another team's WFs/comps. Build that shit. Profit? 

Please do this earlier in the mod when we're not getting crushed, or make time for it somehow. I would've absolutely loved to dive into this project, but definitely was forced to flag it as lowest priority. I feel really bad for Lauren and Louisa who put a lot of work into this, and ended up seeing us all do a bunch of garbage work.

## D: Professional Skills

### Gear Up
#### Tragedy of the Commons

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/turingschool/gearup/blob/master/tragedy_of_the_commons.markdown)

I'm a terrible person, and decided to go work on the movie-tracker app at a coffee shop. Please don't fail me.

#### Automation

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/turingschool/gearup/blob/master/automation.markdown))

Holy shit, the first gear-up I've actually been excited about! Had some great discussions w/ both my small group and the class in general. Everyone I talked to agreed this was the best gear-up to-date. I didn't even write anything down in a markup to put in here like I normally would, b/c I was too busy having deep discussions about neural networks, the meaning of life, and the necessity for us to implement...


#### Universal Basic Income

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/turingschool/gearup/blob/master/universal_basic_income.markdown)

Damn. Two great gear-ups in a row, but I have to go and make a calculated decision to schedule a dentist's appointment during this one. Very fitting that this was the first time I used Medicaid for dental purposes. God bless socialism.

### Professional Development

##### Resume [Link](https://resume.creddle.io/resume/g6wxvhzmznz)

##### LinkedIn [Link](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jeffbuss)

I did some other stuff and sent it to Meg. I can link it here if need be. 

## E: Feedback and Community Participation

### Giving Feedback

#### Dan Grund

Dan Grund is a pile of garbage. He is an offensive, vile person with a heart of gold.  Dan gets frustrated easily, but for some reason not while inside the walls of Turing as far as I've seen. I think it has something to do w/ it being easier than running a food truck. IDK, maybe he'll have a meltdown soon. Please let me know if the situation arises, as I am the most capable of handling them. Also be wary if he decides the team needs to pivot. You could end up at Restoration Hardware on a school night. His logical thought-process, keen wit, and well-curated wardrobe make working w/ him a most enjoyable experience overall. 10/10, not sorry that he'll never be able to get rid of me. 

#### Justin Wood

Was a pleasure working with you again Justin. I stated in my last project that
> I'd love to pair w/ Justin again on an even more complex, longer, multi-person project to give more critical feedback lol, but the sailing was smooth this time around.

and my wish was granted! We had an absolute rockstar team, and I had a blast on this one despite not quite being able to keep up w/ yall's understanding of redux. 

Your incredible problem-solving skills and perseverance in seeing tasks to completion is remarkable. However, as you're well aware lol, it can definitely send you down into a rabbit hole. I know you don't like taking breaks when you're in the middle of something, but it'd probably do you a lot of good. Even if that break is just working on a another feature, it would still help you clear your head and come back to the problem w/ a new state of mind.

Despite my assumptions that you were going to be blowing through most of the features you were working on solo, it was awesome to see you pairing w/ us most of the time. It was really seeing how well you worked in groups. You always kept your cool, weren't pushy about anything, and all your insights while pairing were extremely valuable. I look forward to working with you again! 

#### Mr Limbo

Was so excited to see I was paired with you yet again Limbo. Working with you is not only a breeze due to your in-depth understanding of the material, but just b/c you're an overall great guy to be around. I know I definitely grilled you a bit on your moments of negativity the first time around, and that was basically gone. There were a couple instances where it popped up, but was nothing that even came close to causing an issue. Sometimes your backend devs write some shit that's broken lol :)

It's been remarkable watching you progress through this program. If I had to pick a person who I saw make the most progress since day one, it would undoubtedly be you. Your dedication to your work here at Turing is pretty baffling at times. I thought I had strong work ethic, but you make me look like a chump. Look forward to many more long hours at the keyboard followed up by cold beers in the future my man, always a pleasure!

#### Annastasia Psitos

Was glad to finally get to work with you Anna! Was wondering if we'd ever get paired together :) Despite neither of us liking Ember, we did a great job getting the damn thing done. Was awesome working with another person who also prefers pairing, and this project was perfect for that. 

It was hard sometimes to see you stressing about everything. I know this program is fucking difficult, but you greatly underestimate your skills a lot of the time. I recall the one moment where you were most stressed was over a new feature that had just gotten released, and it turned out even the most capable people in the class were getting just as stuck as we were. You actually were SUPER close in the hour you spent working on it, and tweaking your ideas while chatting w/ other people in class lead the solution after you left for your gig. The pieces you had were actually what others were missing, and if you just had faith in your code you would've been able to knock that feature out as well as help others after talking w/ our classmates about where you were stuck.

However, you did a great job of dealing with your stress, and it wasn't in the least bit an issue for me as your partner. You actually stayed outwardly super positive despite everything, and didn't let it affect the team. I could just tell it was getting to you internally since I'm good at reading body language lol, but you didn't put it on me. Working with you was a breeze. You were super accommodating to my schedule at the time, and stayed in constant communication.

You're far more capable than you think Anna. Nobody knows what the hell they're doing in this program, and you can't compare yourself to other people. You also have a life outside of this program, which is a healthy thing many others are missing. Look forward to working with you again in the future!

#### Black bear
Pending 

#### Brenna
Pending

#### General Mod 3 Feedback
Pending

### Being a Community Member

#### Dan Grund
Professional Love Notes: You know, I'm really fucking glad you decided to skip your flight home to come interview for that job, and then stuck through that miserable winter (these gear ups on grit and resiliance have me rolling my eyes and thinking, "shit, I spent a winter trying to cook outside in single-digit temperatures while losing money I didn't have hand over fist, all because I had some dumbass glimmer of hope that the next summer would be better and Jeff's constant positivity and assurance to keep me grounded, I don't need a lesson on fuckin grit"). I want to say you should spend less time overthinking problems and more time driving forward, but only do that when you're working with anybody else. That overthinking and detail-oriented focus balances out my more sporadic and impulsive drive and I think between the two of us it makes for an interesting center path. We're gonna do some wavy things in the years to come. Namaste, garbage recognize garbage. 

#### Justin Wood
Pending

#### Mike Limberg

Working with Buss (and Justin) on the movie project was definitely one of the best if not the best group project I’ve had. We had a great workflow, everyone chipped in and I’m very proud of the final product. Buss is a great team player and seeks to contribute wherever and however he can.

While Buss assumed the roll of “SassGod” and devoted a lot of his time to making our project look great, he was constantly asking to stop and break down the redux code to get a better understanding. My only feedback would be that he demand more ownership. Embrace being uncomfortable. Ask to own a part of a project he may not know how to build, and figure out how to build it.

Overall GREAT project. Will obviously work with Buss any time. Solid team player!

#### Annastasia Psitos
I was really glad to work with you on this project. It was very helpful to work with someone else who prefers to pair and someone who is much better at handling stress than I am. I have a tendency to take things too seriously and to internalize a lot of stress, but working with you helped me feel less stressed about the project, even when things weren’t working correctly. I was also glad to work with someone whose outside life is also busy; it meant we were very focused when we worked together and we were both happy to make accommodations for each other’s schedule. We worked very well together and I look forward to working with you again in the future!


#### My Only Google Forms Response (despite numerous pairing sessions and a 45min impromptu "lightning" talk w/ mod 1)
You pretty much ruined code for me. I was loving it, actually left my spouse, sold my house, and prematurely put my dog to sleep so I could focus 200% of my time on code. I was going to be the next Wozniak until I paired with you. Now it's ruined. Now I have nothing. So thanks for that dick. I award you no points and may god have mercy on your soul.


### Playing a Part

* Tried to always be a "cheerleader" of sorts, and kept morale high. In this line of work it's easy for people to get frustrated, and I'm excellent at getting people to step back and realize how unnecessary their frustrations often are.
* Spent the majority of my hours working outside of class at Banksment so I could continue meeting other members of the community. I have closed the place down close to 10 times over the course of the module. One time I just stayed. I hate Chuck Norris. I often put myself in charge of clean up, as this gets skipped at least 75% of the time. I try to do some dishes, put tables/chairs/TVs back in order, and handle other tasks custodial staff wouldn't. People are slobs though, and I usually don't make too big of a dent.
* Always show up at Portions, and showed up or attempted to show up at all other out-of-class events
* Attended numerous meetups/social events w/in the field, and represented Turing to the best of my ability while networking with other people in the industry. 
* Organized non-tech-related social gatherings for Turing students whenever there was free time. Ask Meeka if she likes brass music and mac n cheese if proof is needed from credible sources.
* Gave 1701FE an impromptu 45min "lightning" talk on workflow efficiency, keybindings/keyboard shortcuts, and general shit I wish I would've known. 

------------------

## Final Review

### Notes

### Outcome
PASS
