# Jeff Buss - M3 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

* Reinforce knowledge of JS/React
* Learn router/redux
* Learn more complex testing methods
* Network within as well as outside the walls of touring
* Practice logical thinking
* Improve time management
* Find a job
* Find a girl who's into robots
* Make my mother proud
* Try not to hurt myself 

## Rubric Scores

Fill in how you would grade yourself from 1-4 in the following categories this module:

* **A: End-of-Module Assessment**: IDK yet, but if I don't pass I'm calling my mom immediately. She's a heavy investor in SkillsFund, so consider going easy on me
* **B: Individual Work & Projects**: 3
* **C: Group Work & Projects**: 3
* **D: Professional Skills**: 3
* **E: Feedback & Community Participation**: 3.914159 - I skipped a gear up to photoshop a "no artwork available" placeholder of a ketchup bottle smashed on the concrete for the movie-tracker project, and forgot to fill out a survey or three. Besides that I drink a lot of koolaid

-----------------------

## A: End of Module Assessment

[Github URL]()

## B: Individual Work & Projects

### Personal Site

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/JeffBuss/PersonalSite)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/personal-site-first-draft.html)

My garbage personal site. In my defense, I created it the second weekend of Turing. My CSS skills were above average then, so I didn't touch it for the entirety of this mod or the last. My bad team. Greyscale forever.

### Chuckles Norris

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/JeffBuss/chuckles-norris)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/walker-texas-rangerbox.html)

Build a Chuck Norris random joke generator using react/redux/router! I already disliked Chuck Norris, but now I can't even think about him. Even writing this right now is triggering. Loved the project otherwise, but ffs please find another API for future students to use. I'm embarrassed to even put this on resumes despite it being a great show of skill on a solo project.

### Self-Directed Project

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/JeffBuss/clandesdine)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/self-directed-project.html)

Organizing private dinner parties is a pain in the ass. You probably have the location locked down, a team of capable chefs, and all the equipment you need. Organizing your guests and receiving payment prior to the event is the hard part. 

The reach goal of this app is to create a singular portal for private, event-specific sign-up using an invitation code, details on the event, RSVP form to submit the details for your party, and a payment processing system to get the funds required in advance.

## C: Group Work & Projects

### Ripe Tomatoes

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/JeffBuss/movie-watcher)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/weather-forecast.html)
* [Grading Markdown]()

Build a sweet movie tracker app using react/redux/router that hits a super cool movie API. Handle login/favorites using an even cooler API built by Tman2272 himself. Sign in. Search movies. Favorite movies. Never sign out b/c the app is so awesome. Tomatoes everywhere. 

This was a great project overall, and I'd love to see more focus on working w/ APIs in the curriculum. A lesson or three more on that would be great at some point though. We literally only got one lesson on AJAX and one lesson on Firebase prior to this as far as APIs go.

### remEmber

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/JeffBuss/1610-remember-7)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/remember.html)
* [Grading Markdown]()

Rip off iOS notes using some really opinionated framework called Ember! Was really into Ember at first, but after diving deeper into it decided I hated it. Debugging it was super difficult, it didn't play well with Atom despite all of the packages I tried to install, and the dev-server was a nightmare for me personally. Maybe it was specific to my machine, but I literally wrote a bash function and system keybinding to restart the server b/c I ended up doing it so often lol. Testing was a BREEZE though, so that was nice.

The concepts we learned about version control in team environments were INCREDIBLY useful, but I would've much rather kept learning React. Would love to see this as a 3-4 person project in React with a well-thought-out list of features that could be worked on separately, but still required coordination/communication to avoid conflicts. Giving two people a very small handful of tasks that were almost all sequential in their necessary order of completion didn't seem like it accomplished the goal of teaching real-world production skills, but perhaps I'm off there.


#### Ultimate UX Design Challenge

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/ianlancaster/Ultimate-UX-Design-Challenge)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/ultimate-ux-ui-team-challenge.html)

Create wireframes and comps for a fitness app. Hand em off to another team. Receive another team's WFs/comps. Build that shit. Profit? 

Please do this earlier in the mod when we're not getting crushed, or make time for it somehow. I would've absolutely loved to dive into this project, but definitely was forced to flag it as lowest priority. I feel really bad for Lauren and Louisa who put a lot of work into this, and ended up seeing us all do a bunch of garbage work.

## D: Professional Skills

### Gear Up
#### Tragedy of the Commons

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/turingschool/gearup/blob/master/tragedy_of_the_commons.markdown)

I'm a terrible person, and decided to go work on the movie-tracker app at a coffee shop. Please don't fail me.

#### Automation

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/turingschool/gearup/blob/master/automation.markdown))

Holy shit, the first gear-up I've actually been excited about! Had some great discussions w/ both my small group and the class in general. Everyone I talked to agreed this was the best gear-up to-date. I didn't even write anything down in a markup to put in here like I normally would, b/c I was too busy having deep discussions about neural networks, the meaning of life, and the necessity for us to implement...


#### Universal Basic Income

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/turingschool/gearup/blob/master/universal_basic_income.markdown)

Damn. Two great gear-ups in a row, but I have to go and make a calculated decision to schedule a dentist's appointment during this one. Very fitting that this was the first time I used Medicaid for dental purposes. God bless socialism.

### Professional Development

##### Resume [Link](https://resume.creddle.io/resume/g6wxvhzmznz)

##### LinkedIn [Link](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jeffbuss)

I did some other stuff and sent it to Meg. I can link it here if need be. 

## E: Feedback and Community Participation

### Giving Feedback

#### Dan Grund

Dan Grund is a pile of garbage. He is an offensive, vile person with a heart of gold.  Dan gets frustrated easily, but for some reason not while inside the walls of Turing as far as I've seen. I think it has something to do w/ it being easier than running a food truck. IDK, maybe he'll have a meltdown soon. Please let me know if the situation arises, as I am the most capable of handling them. Also be wary if he decides the team needs to pivot. You could end up at Restoration Hardware on a school night. His logical thought-process, keen wit, and well-curated wardrobe make working w/ him a most enjoyable experience overall. 10/10, not sorry that he'll never be able to get rid of me. 

#### Justin Wood

Working with Justin was a pleasure. At first I was a bit worried about splitting up tasks the way we did, but in the end was pleased we did it the way we did. Picking our weaknesses and concentrating on those turned out to be a great idea. This ended up being a good exercise in delegating tasks, and seeing them out to the end. I'd love to pair w/ Justin again on an even more complex, longer, multi-person project to give more critical feedback lol, but the sailing was smooth this time around. Kudos to Justin, as I was able to come up w/ criticism for everyone else. Also, his dedication to the project - especially on the final night writing more complex tests into the wee hours of the morning - did not go unnoticed. 

#### Elijah Williams

Similar to the feedback given to me, I would consider Elijah one of the most dependable, stable, and level-headed people I've paired w/ at Turing thus far. It's always a pleasure to work with someone who doesn't get unnecessarily upset when something doesn't work. That's literally our job at this point - fixing broken shit lol :) Elijah is able to keep his cool despite incredibly frustrating issues arising, which is a crucial trait in this field. Sometimes this can lead to mild complacency  and an "everything is fine, I'm cool with whatever" attitude (for lack of a better way to put it), but when need be Elijah always will speak his mind.

#### Chelle Tuerk

Chelle is a gem. She is a fucking firecracker, which is rare breed at Turing. I greatly appreciate someone who is willing to speak their mind, work hard as hell, and make shit happen. I generally don't swear quite this much, but it seems applicable when describing Chelle. 

This attitude can come with drawbacks, but they are few and far between. At times Chelle can decide to take the lead on tasks without *explicitly* consulting the group first. This can be great in some situations, but generally it would be better if the group was fully aware of what was happening. Chelle could also be more diligent with her github usage, as I got sick of fixing merge conflicts. Bless her soul, but I've never had more issues regarding version control than I did working on our budget app despite working in multi-person groups prior to this.

Chelle was on the brink of heading up to the mountains on more than one occasion, but despite Elijah and I telling her to take a damn break she still decided to keep cranking out code for an absurd number of hours. She is an incredibly driven, outspoken, and intelligent individual who will undoubtedly find a place on the most interesting of teams upon entering the workforce. I look forward to working with her in the future once she bookmarks github.


### Being a Community Member

#### Dan Grund
Professional Love Notes: You know, I'm really fucking glad you decided to skip your flight home to come interview for that job, and then stuck through that miserable winter (these gear ups on grit and resiliance have me rolling my eyes and thinking, "shit, I spent a winter trying to cook outside in single-digit temperatures while losing money I didn't have hand over fist, all because I had some dumbass glimmer of hope that the next summer would be better and Jeff's constant positivity and assurance to keep me grounded, I don't need a lesson on fuckin grit"). I want to say you should spend less time overthinking problems and more time driving forward, but only do that when you're working with anybody else. That overthinking and detail-oriented focus balances out my more sporadic and impulsive drive and I think between the two of us it makes for an interesting center path. We're gonna do some wavy things in the years to come. Namaste, garbage recognize garbage. 

#### Justin Wood

I was really excited when I saw that Buss would be my partner for this project. I knew coming into the project that his strengths were my weaknesses and my strengths were his weaknesses. I also knew he would be on board for us to split up the tasks so that both of us had to face our weaknesses and have the other there for help when needed. I can’t think of a single criticism. Communication was great, willingness to stay late when we needed to, not afraid to take risks… It ended up just being an incredibly smooth project where we both came out as better developers and I really look forward to working with Buss again in the future.

#### Elijah Williams
You did a great job on the budget app.  You were dependable and always came back with something that worked well.  Focus on ripping apart code you’ve written and finding other ways of doing it.  I think it will help you be more proficient at syntax and problem solving.  All in, it was awesome to work with you.

#### Chelle Tuerk

JEFF BUSS FEEDBACK  Jeff is a great guy with a great outlook.  He’s able to extinguish a stressful situation with humor and a “What’s next?” approach.  Additionally, his willingness to work on any part of a project is welcomed, he doesn't cherry-pick tasks to suit his taste.  Always innovative with his CSS makes him a reliable asset to any team.

#### My Only Google Forms Response (despite numerous pairing sessions)
You pretty much ruined code for me. I was loving it, actually left my spouse, sold my house, and prematurely put my dog to sleep so I could focus 200% of my time on code. I was going to be the next Wozniak until I paired with you. Now it's ruined. Now I have nothing. So thanks for that dick. I award you no points and may god have mercy on your soul.


### Playing a Part

* Tried to always be a "cheerleader" of sorts, and kept morale high. In this line of work it's easy for people to get frustrated, and I'm excellent at getting people to step back and realize how unnecessary their frustrations often are.
* Spent the majority of my hours working outside of class at Banksment so I could continue meeting other members of the community. I have closed the place down close to 10 times over the course of the module. One time I just stayed. I hate Chuck Norris. I often put myself in charge of clean up, as this gets skipped at least 75% of the time. I try to do some dishes, put tables/chairs/TVs back in order, and handle other tasks custodial staff wouldn't. People are slobs though, and I usually don't make too big of a dent.
* Always show up at Portions, and showed up or attempted to show up at all other out-of-class events
* Attended numerous meetups/social events w/in the field, and represented Turing to the best of my ability while networking with other people in the industry. 
* Organized non-tech-related social gatherings for Turing students whenever there was free time. Ask Meeka if she likes brass music and mac n cheese if proof is needed from credible sources.
* Gave 1701FE an impromptu 45min "lightning" talk on workflow efficiency, keybindings/keyboard shortcuts, and general shit I wish I would've known.

------------------

## Final Review

### Notes

( Leave blanks for reviewers )

### Outcome

( Leave blanks for reviewers )
