First Last - M1 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

What did you set out to accomplish this module? Were you successful?

I set out to make sure that I had a solid grasp of Ruby fundamentals. Since it was my second time going through this module I had a great opportunity to identify what areas I was weak in. I had the time to work on becoming stronger on each area of weakness. There are still some areas that I know that I'm a bit weak on such as nested collections, multiple class interactions, and ARGV but I know that the more exposure I get in these areas the stronger I become. I used this opportunity to also pair with Andrew each time I had an area that I was weak in. I think in general, I am successful in reaching my goal. There's still work to be done, but I know with more time and exposure I will reach the level I want to be in.

What did you struggle most with this module? What did you learn from that struggle?

I think I struggled the most with Battleship due to the fact that there was no guidance on how to going through the planning of the project. But I learned a huge lesson in that project and thats the value of really thinking through a roadmap and creating evaluation checkpoints to see if I need to redesign my plan, to continue, or to refactor. Making these conscious decisions early on would have saved me on that project. What was valuable in this lesson is that the design planning is not something that is taught in our class, only mentioned briefly in the battleship introduction. Design decisions are extremely important in my future career development. Functional code is one thing, but you always have to account for the fact that something you write may have be looked at and updated by another developer who may not have communication with you. So design and planning is incredibly important and I learned that from battleship. And I believe that I used what I learned in planning a road map for black thursday.

## Projects

What were your favorite projects this module? Least favorite? Why?
Perilous journey was my favorite. I know that Linked Lists is a foundational computer science concept and although I didn't like it while I was working on it, I loved it after I completed it. It also solidified my knowledge in traversing through nodes, using until loops, and saving information in variables for later use(which helped in BlackThursday).

My least favorite was Battleship for the reasons above, but I know that I got a lot of value from the learning opportunity it gave me.

What did you learn from your independent projects?
I learned that I have the ability to code and I can build my confidence by building out an independent project piece by piece.


What did you learn from your paired projects?
I learned a lot from my paired projects. Each individual I paired with was an opportunity to learn about different working, communication, and feedback styles. I learned the value of making a roadmap and schedule of code that I have to be accountable towards.


## Community

What was your favorite Gear Up? Least favorite? Why?
Favorite gear up was Story Telling as it allowed me to engage with people and learn more about them and where they come from. I think my least favorite was growth mindset, and only because I had already done that gear up when I did module 1 originally.

How did you contribute to the Turing community this module?
I contributed to the Turing community by engaging with each of my cohort members and making an effort to learn who they are, where they come from, and what drives them. At Turing, we have this unique opportunity to meet people from different places with different experiences. And I believe that I made a strong effort to appreciate that opportunity and to grow from those learning experiences.


What would you like to do to contribute next module?

Next module, I'd like to be able to assist Module 1 students with their projects and provide pairing opportunities. I am very grateful for the opportunity for older mods to pair and tutor me so if anything I'd like to give that back.

## Self-Assessment Scores

Fill in how you would grade yourself from 1-4 in the following categories this module.

Category	Score  
Individual Projects	2/3  
Group Projects	3  
Professional Development	4  
Community	4  
Pentathlon	3  

## Instructor Scores  

Category	Score  
Individual Projects	2  
Group Projects	3  
Professional Development	3  
Community	 3  
Pentathlon	3  
