###### Biggest achievement?
My biggest technical achievement of the module would have to be kicking butt on the final. It was super fun to bang out a project in four hours that would have taken me a week + a few months ago.
I am most happy about a new sense of calm in the storm. I am more confident in my ability to go from, "I have no idea what the problem is that I need to solve," to, "I have no idea how to solve this problem," to, "I have no idea why this solution doesn't work," to, "I have no idea how to make this solution better," to, "I did it. What's next?"

###### Biggest struggle?
Trying to juggle all the things, get everything done, and not burn out. It's been a long time for me in the basement, my mental health has been a rickety roller coaster. and I haven't had an easy time managing life's struggles while at Turing.
In my not too distant past, I would have given up. And I almost did. Many times. Thanks to the support from my family, my peers, my mentors and especially the staff at Turing, I perservered.
And then trying to keep up with Jon on our capstone.

###### What sets me apart? 
I'm like a seven year senior, so I have a pretty large network of folks I feel comfortable reaching out to.

###### What do I think about backend development?
I really enjoy working with the backend. I like the pure logic. I'm going to dive deeper in to backend technologies after graduation.


###### Most important skill I've "learned":
Besides all the technical skill, it's just to chill. be cool. I'm smart. I can figure it out. work at my pace and be cool with it.

[Action Plan](https://gist.github.com/rennmatthewp/3f4eed4d2e1d3583a17355a8bad8a332)
