# Stephanie Andrews - M1 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

I sought to develop my technical and problem solving skills.  I wanted to get a firm understanding of the basics of html, css, javascript and jquery.

## Rubric Scores

Fill in how you would grade yourself from 1-4 in the following categories this module:

* **A: End-of-Module Assessment**: 3
* **B: Individual Work & Projects**: 2
* **C: Group Work & Projects**: 3
* **D: Professional Skills**: 3
* **E: Feedback & Community Participation**: 3

-----------------------

## A: End of Module Assessment

Progression/Completion: 3
  Developer is able to implement solutions at the speed of a junior developer.
JavaScript Style: 3
  Developer solves problems with a balance between conciseness and clarity and often extracts logical components
Workflow: 3
  Developer demonstrates comfort with their tools and makes some use of keyboard shortcuts
Collaboration: 4
  Developer actively seeks collaboration both before implementing, while in motion, and when stuck.

## B: Individual Work & Projects

Our only individual project was the personal site.

#### Personal Website

* https://stephanieea.github.io./
* http://frontend.turing.io/projects/personal-site-first-draft.html

I have plans to do great things with filters and flexbox over the break.

(evaluation comments)

(evaluation scores)

## C: Group Work & Projects

### Projects

This module we worked on Number Guesser, Linked List, Idea Box and Game Time.

#### Number Guesser

* https://github.com/pescel/number-guesser
* http://frontend.turing.io/projects/number-guesser.html

Number Guesser is a guessing game where the user must guess a number between one and one hundred that was randomly generated by the computer.  We used javascript for functionality and to meet our UX/UI requirements.

COMMENTS
  JavaScript needed refactoring to break long functions into smaller, separate functions
  There were repeated query selections, when you can assigned the element from the query selection to a variable to use later

SCORES
UX/UI Expectations: 3
  Application shows strong effort towards matching the comp, but some details have been missed. Any extensions are simple, clean design, content organization, and well thought out experience and user interactions.
Functional Expectations:  4
  Application meets all of the functional expectations in Phase Three
Fundamental JavaScript Style: 2
  Application runs but the code has long functions, unnecessary or poorly named variables, and needs significant refactoring

Feedback from Lauren:
 It was truly a pleasure to be partnered with you for the first project. I think we worked well together and I learned so much from our time together. Your knowledge of CSS and HTML was impressive and you were willing to work hard in order to make our Number Guesser the best it could be. I wish we had more time to work together, but under the circumstances I think it worked out well.

#### Linked List

* https://github.com/StephanieEA/LinkedList
* http://frontend.turing.io/projects/linked-list.html

Linked List is an application to save bookmarks.  We used javascript and jquery to manage the user functionality.

NOTES:
  Students may take the weekend and resubmit project for review on Monday for revised scores.

SCORES
Functional Expectations:  1
  Application does not meet the requirements in Phase One.
Fundamental JavaScript Style:  2
  Application runs but the code has long functions, unnecessary or poorly named variables, and needs significant refactoring.
Workflow:  2.5
  The developer makes large commits covering multiple features that make it difficult for the evaluator to determine the evolution of the application.
HTML Style:  3
  Developer solves structural problems with a balance between conciseness and clarity. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code and every tag and selector is doing.
CSS Style:  3
  Application is thoughtfully put together with some duplication and no major bugs. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of CSS is doing.

Feedback from my partner:
I appreciated how easy it was to communicate about the project and goals and about issues we were having with the project. I also appreciate that you were willing to break after school and meet up later for as long as it took. While we learned that we should have asked for help earlier, I am glad that you didn't just give up when things got difficult, but kept plugging away at code and research to try and find the answer.


#### Idea Box

* https://github.com/AKewlBreeze/IdeaBox
* http://frontend.turing.io/projects/ideabox.html

Idea Box is an application to store ideas.  We used javascript and jquery to implement filtering and interactivity on the browser.  We used JSON and local storage to save data between sessions.


SCORES
Specification Adherence: 3
  The application consists of one page with all of the major functionality being provided by jQuery. No approach was taken that is counter to the spirit of the project and its learning goals. There are no features missing from above that make the application feel incomplete or hard to use.

HTML Style: 3.5
  missed out on using an h1 for the header/title. Developer solves structural problems with a balance between conciseness and clarity. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code and every tag and selector is doing.

CSS Style:  3
  Application is thoughtfully put together with some duplication and no major bugs. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of CSS is doing.

JavaScript Style:  3
  Application is thoughtfully put together with some duplication and no major bugs. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code is doing.

Workflow: 3
  The developer makes a series of small, atomic commits that document the evolution of their application. There are no formatting issues in the code base.

Collaboration:  3
  Team members employ PRs and issues to both manage their work and communication/collaboration around executing the tasks.

Feedback from my partner:
Ideabox was a tremendous challenge and we had some setbacks but we got the project together and it was a solid project. I probably learned the most on that project. I felt like this project was an equally shared between the two of us. That provided a wonderful learning opportunity. You had a pleasant attitude through some difficult stuff, and were open to my suggestions. It was a great experience for me.

#### Game Time

* https://github.com/DanGrund/Game-Time
* http://frontend.turing.io/projects/game-time.html

We built a unique take on asteroids.  Our player controls a deathstar with arrow keys.  He/she can shoot lasers to destroy randomly generated planets, that spawn at an increasing rate as time goes on.  The score increases every time a planet is destroyed.  The game ends when the deathstar has lost it's 3 lives.


SCORES
Functional Expectations:  4
  Application is fully playable and exceeds the expectations set by instructors.
UI:  4
  The application is pleasant, logical, and easy to use. There are no holes in functionality and the application stands on its own to be used by the instructor without guidance from the developer.
Testing:  4
  Project has a running test suite that exercises the application at multiple levels. The test suite covers almost all aspects of the application and uses mocks and stubs when appropriate.
Javascript style:  3
  Application is thoughtfully put together with some duplication and no major bugs. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code is doing.
Workflow:  4
  The developer effectively uses Git branches and many small, atomic commits that document the evolution of their application.
Code Sanitation:  4
  Zero complaints


Feedback from my partner:
Stephanie, great work on this project. I appreciate your dedication to figuring out the entire test suite, especially since we now have 67 passing tests thanks to your hard work. I respect your perseverence through stubborn functions, and ability to think through puzzling problems. I'd suggest that even if you feel like a slower typer, to take the drivers seat while pairing more often. it definitely helps to cement ideas just by typing them out! anyway, it's been a pleasure. I like that we have a relatively complicated game that does a lot of things, and we did a fantastic job with it!

## D: Professional Skills

This module we focused on developing our professional skills through professional development workshops, strengthsfinder workshops, and gear up sessions.  These were focused on personal branding, introversion, voting,

### Gear Up

#### Vote Your Conscience
* https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/vote_your_conscience.markdown
My takeaways:
I appreciate being in a community that takes the time to discuss the importance of citizenship and voting.  I think voting is important and I'm glad that sentiment is shared.  At the same time, I think it's the bare minimum someone should do as a citizen- I think it's vastly more important to work to effect change in your local community.

#### Introversion
* https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/introversion.markdown
My takeaways:
It's important to be mindful of each others' differences and how our environments might be set up to favor individuals with more extroverted tendencies.  In pairing it's important to to try and meet the needs of both your partner and yourself with respect to your tendencies.

#### Resilience
* https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/resilience.markdown
My takeaways:
Resilience is incredibly important.  It is important to consider it as more of a skill set than some sort of fixed variable.  You never know someone's experience or background and what one person might deem as not being resilient might be the epitome of resilience for someone else who has experienced trauma.  Strategies like mindfulness and reframing thinking can help build resilience skills.

#### Strengthsfinder (Adaptability and Restorative)
My takeaway:
The concerns I have about being uncompromising or having fixed ideas about what's best or what I want can actually be helpful in motivating me to effect change in my community.  Adaptability, which can sometimes lead me to be less careful or calculated in my actions, is also what gives me the ability to meet unforseen challenges.

### Professional Development Workshops

#### Personal Branding

* https://github.com/turingschool/professional_skills/blob/master/module_one/personal_branding_p1.md
* https://www.linkedin.com/in/stephanie-andrews-610aa762
* https://twitter.com/stephanieastep
* https://github.com/StephanieEA

The takeaways are all of the documents above and the importance of telling a story in them.  I'm still working on what story to tell...


#### Learning to Pair

* https://github.com/turingschool/professional_skills/blob/master/module_one/learning_to_pair.md
* https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PmiilpSMoaN0qJDmoue_Fx6spwYEcwyd2c_F08smyBU/edit?usp=sharing
The takeaway for me was the importance of completing a DTR for every project.  The document above is an example DTR that Breana and I wrote for Ideabox.

#### Feedback

* https://github.com/turingschool/professional_skills/blob/master/module_one/feedback_1.md
It's important when giving feedback to stick to the facts.  It's also important to be mindful of the careful balance between framing something constructive in a way that's easily received and being genuine about the challenges you faced in working with the other person.  The most challenging aspect of taking feedback for me is viewing it as some sort of identity threat.  The best way for me to challenge that tendency is to ask for more specifics so that I understand exactly where someone is coming from before overly-internalizing their feedback.

## E: Feedback and Community Participation

### Giving Feedback

Feedback for Number Guesser: Lauren
I  appreciated your understanding and consideration when it came to timing.  You wrote excellent comments that clarified the code very well- in addition to writing solid javascript for the first time!  It was easy to communicate with you about our code and our goals.  For constructive feedback, don’t be afraid to ask for more from your partner.


Feedback for Linked List: Anna
I appreciated the research you put into our project.  When we weren’t sure about the next step, you were quick to look up different possibilities we could follow.  It was easy to communicate about our goals and the challenges we faced with the code.  I appreciated your flexibility with meeting times/places.  I also appreciated your positivity.  For constructive feedback, I think we both learned about the necessity of asking for help when necessary and probably should have reached out for more assistance.


Feedback for IdeaBox: Breana
I learned so much from working on IdeaBox with you.  I really appreciated your thoughtful approach to the code.  I also appreciated your flexibility, understanding, and hospitality when it came to scheduling meeting times.  Also, I was impressed with how resourceful you were.  Several times when we were stuck, you would reference the necessary information or reach out to others to make sure you had all the information necessary. Also, your organizational skills with creating and closing github issues were helpful to guide our process at the end.  For constructive, I think it would have been helpful for both of us if we did a DTR reassessment or something similar prior to our pairing with Bree and maybe even after.  I think we both worked to try and meet each other’s communication styles but didn’t really know the best way to go about it.  Hence, more reflection on how to work together effectively throughout the process might have benefited us both.


Game Time: Dan
I appreciate your initiative and drive with Game-Time.  You had a clear vision of what you wanted the game to be like and articulated the necessary logical steps to get there very well.   Similarly, I appreciated your organizational skills with github issues and pull requests- it gave the project solid direction.  Also, your humor and your positivity make working with you fun.  For constructive feedback, it would be helpful if you left more comments in the code to clarify things that aren’t self explanatory.


Matt Kaufman
I don't have the specific feedback but I thanked him for helping Dan and I with Game-Time in linking, separating and refactoring bullets in addition to helping me feel welcome in Pahlka.

Nick
I don't have the specific feedback but I thanked him for helping Breana and I with IdeaBox.



### Being a Community Member

Feedback:
I haven't asked for any feedback from the community outside of the partner feedback for group projects listed above.  I hope to do a lot more for the community next module.

### Playing a Part

I support the larger Turing community by doing my best to support my peers in whatever way I can. If I can help with technical skills I try to.  If retros are full of negative comments I mention whatever positives I can think of to keep everything balanced.  Similarly, if someone is struggling or expressing a lot of negativity I listen or offer possible suggestions, depending on what the situations call for.  I make it a point to consistently express my appreciation for the assistance I get from others.  I support the larger Turing community by being an active member of a posse.  Over the break I plan to remake my game so that it can be a part of the larger game that Pahlka is making.  Next module I hope to contribute more by pairing with incoming students and by joining the Joan Clarke morning coffee group.
------------------

## Final Review

### Notes

( Leave blanks for reviewers )

### Outcome

PASS
