# Erin Bassity - M2 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

> In module 2, I wanted to expand upon the fundamental Ruby skills I learned in module 1 and learn how to build
database-driven web applications in Sinatra and Rails. Through group projects, I learned to apply best practices
in agile project management and collaboration. Solo projects provided a rhythm and structure that reinforced concepts
and strengthened my comfort in creating Rails web applications. I also wanted to experiment with more advanced Bootstrap
and other styling techniques in the context of a Rails project. 

## Self-Assessment

| Section | Category | Score (optional) |
| --- | ----- | --- |
| A | **End-of-Module Assessment** | PASS |
| B | **Individual Work & Projects** | PASS |
| C | **Group Projects** | PASS |
| D | **Professional Development** | PASS |
| E | **Feedback & Community Participation** | PASS |

-----------------------

## A: End-of-Module Assessment

| Category | Score (optional) |
| ----- | --- |
| **Pairing Assessment** | PASS |
| **Written Diagnostic** | PASS |

## B: Individual Work & Projects

#### Blog Post: Working with Paperclip in your Rails Project
> [Working with Paperclip in your Rails Project](https://somedayrainbows.github.io/blog.html)

#### Tutorials: Blogger & Mix Master
Blogger: Created a simple blog system and learned the basics of Ruby on Rails
Mix Master: Created an app in which I could keep track of songs, artists, and playlists. Owners were part of the mix too.
> I really enjoyed both of these projects. Blogger was a solid and comprehensive project to start with, and Mix Master,
also comprehensive, was possibly my favorite project from the mod. I've done it twice now and plan to do it again over
the intermission to stay sharp. For me, Mix master helped me understand many-to-many relationships better, introduced the
notion of using factories to improve efficiency in testing, and drove home the concept of TDD in RSpec. I appreciated the
exposure to Heroku as well.

#### Projects: Job Tracker & Rails Mini Project
Job Tracker: Worked with an existing repository of code to build out additional features to a personal job tracking app. 
Rails Mini Project: I created an app that allows users to save 'favorite' gifs generated by an admin user.
> I really enjoyed Job Tracker although I didn't get as far as I wanted to in the project before I ran out of time. I think
I could have benefitted from 1 more day on that one, or set check-ins or deadlines from instructors so I could better benchmark my work in order to finish (even loosely, a schedule such as "you should expect to complete X aspect of Job Tracker by X date" would have been helpful). I think, because of being unfamiliar with someone else's code, I spent too much time on the front end getting comfortable with the code and mapping out my plan. Rails Mini Project on the other hand, which I also didn't finish completely, was a pleasure to develop. This project allowed me to become comfortable with implementing authentication and authorization/namespacing admin functionality, work with the Giphy API to generate gifs on my site for users to save as 'favorites', work with many-to-many relationships, and practice styling. I really had a good time experimenting with Bootstrap layouts and elements on this project.

## C: Group Work & Projects

**Bike Share** 
We used Ruby, Sinatra, and Activerecord to build a site that analyzes bike share usage in San Francisco.
> Had a great group experience in Bike Share. The amount of work was really intensive, but we learned a ton about ActiveRecord
querying and staying away from Ruby methods when possible. It was greally gratifying to visually interact with our work in the
way we could in Bike Share. Additionally, I had a blast styling Bike Share and exploring data visualization.

**Little Shop of Orders** 
We built an online commerce platform to facilitate online ordering in Ruby on Rails.
> This project has been amazing to develop. Reinforced every thing mentioned in previous 

| CATEGORY | Bike Share (scores optional) | Little Shop (scores optional) |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **Project Spec** | [Bike Spec](https://github.com/turingschool/bike-share/blob/master/README.md) | [Shop Spec](http://backend.turing.io/module2/projects/little_shop) |
| **Github Repo** | [Bike Repo](https://github.com/turingschool/bike-share/blob/master/README.md) | [Shop Repo](http://backend.turing.io/module2/projects/little_shop) |
| **Functional Expectations** | PASS | PASS |
| **ActiveRecord** | PASS | PASS |
| **User Experience and Conventions** | PASS | PASS |
| **Code Organization/Quality** | PASS | PASS |
| **Testing** | PASS | PASS |
| **Working Collaboratively** | PASS | PASS |

##### Feedback to me for Bike Share

From Mark Stover:
> I sure am glad you were our team lead. Your organizational skills really helped to drive our project and gave it a really nice tempo. I always knew what to be working on and that was in large part due to the tools you set up for us at the beginning of our project. You did a wonderful job in facilitating discussion around our project design, timelines/daily expectations, and sticking points. In the case of styling our website, your obvious skill in HTML really gave our site a professional touch. You also did a great job of communicating exactly how you were styling our site, keeping each of us up to speed on your work. All together it made for a very positive team experience!

From Natalie Barron:
> Erin, it was great working with you on Bike Share. The work you did made our site really amazing.  I appreciated you taking on the styling of the site and was really impressed with your work. I appreciated your familiarity with waffle and when it wasn’t working for us, you found an alternative tool. I really enjoyed the positivity you brought to our team. You commitment to learning and understanding was really helpful in reinforcing my learning.

##### Feedback to me for Little Shop

From Mark Stover:
> Feedback for little shop: It was awesome getting to work on a second project with you. Again, your styling wizardry gave our site an awesome professional appearance, unrivaled by any other little shop projects in my opinion. Nice Job! You seemed much more comfortable as project manager this time around and I think our project is an expression of this. Your set up of Trello was the backbone of our workflow and the daily stand ups and retros you facilitated contributed to our awesome group dynamic. Lastly, I saw great improvement in your technical skills this project. I think the questions you asked were awesome, the hard work you put in was inspiring, and the smile you brought every day helped contribute to our awesome group dynamic. Thanks for providing a wonderful team experience!

From Natalie Barron:
> Erin, I enjoyed implementing your travel experience idea for our little shop project. You did a great job managing the project. You were very organized and I think that kept us on track.  I really enjoyed the group pairing this time around. I think adding a fourth person to our group made us a stronger team and gave us more opportunities to pair. I appreciate all of the tutorials and helpful resources you found and shared with the group. Thank you for all of your hard work.

From Stephanie Bentley:
> Stellar job as PM! You’re an awesome leader. You kept this project moving smoothly from beginning to end, while also allowing space for us to feel comfortable (when to push ahead, when to call it a day, when to “take care of our shit”, etc.) I think your group’s success is a testament to your leadership. I also really appreciated the initiative you took with heroku. This was a big, messy challenge and one you readily took on. Also, I want to thank you for taking time to share your ‘styling’ skills with me. I feel more comfortable preparing images for a site and using a bootstrap template to build a styled site because of it. Thanks!

## D: Professional Skills

#### **Professional Development Workshops**
> [Warm Outreach, Agile Process, Feedback](https://github.com/turingschool/career-development-curriculum/blob/master/deliverable_submissions/1701-b/erin_bassity.md)

#### **Gear Ups**

> [Empathy](https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/empathy.markdown)
Really enjoyed this Gear Up. Reflecting on all the ways we have experienced living might be different from the experiences
of others was a good starting point for talking about difference and the implications of difference. Found my group members to be really open to this exercise and we had a good discussion, especially about some of the more "invisible" ways people are marginalized. Ended with a general discussion about the importance of empathy and recognizing that just because you haven't personally struggled with something doesn't mean it's not a very real situation involving real challenges for another person.

> [Grit](https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/grit.markdown)
Grit is generally defined as passion with perseverance toward a long-term goal. Being a student at Turing is like a marathon and requires a fair amount of grit to make it through successfully. This Gear Up aligned with a previous session on growth mindset -- for me, the two concepts are hand-in-hand as I make my way through Turing. I would add that I consider courage, resilience, tenacity, and a commitment to excellence to be key aspects of a "gritty" individual.

> [Automation](https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/automation.markdown)
The Gear Up on automation was sobering. While automation is inevitable, the speed of it and impact on what could essentially become superfluous populations are major areas of concern. One of the videos we watched indicated that approximately 45% of the general population would be unemployed when/if those particular jobs slated as most likely to be automated were no longer available to humans. On a positive note, automation of service jobs and resulting high unemployment numbers could create the political and social impetus necessary to make major shifts to (for example) the educational system in the U.S. (starting in early childhood through university). The opportunities--and risks--are immense and could shift an undereducated populace ahead. There's a great podcast called "The Last Job" on "The Truth" podcast that tells the story of a future without work (machines have made our world so efficient that no one has to work), and asks the listener to consider how one derives purpose without it. In the podcast, an underground "working" economy emerges to address a human desire to find purpose in working. Lots of interesting things to consider here, but we all agreed automation is inevitable.

## E: Feedback and Community Participation

#### **Giving Feedback**

##### Feedback from me for Bike Share

For Mark Stover:
> I really enjoyed working on a team with you. Your interpersonal skills are great, and you are equally skilled in team-based work and solo work. You delivered, you showed up, you talked through problems, you were there for your team the entire time. You wrote great code, you refactored, you kept your eye on the ball, you were creative and advocated well for things you felt we should try when we were stuck, and you kept a positive attitude throughout. Thank you for an excellent team experience all around!

For Natalie Barron:
> I really enjoyed working on a team with you. Your positive attitude and commitment to our team were obvious throughout the project. I appreciated how you talk through what you’re doing when we are programming as a pair (or three-person pair in our case); your communication skills are strong. You were good at keeping us focused and project-managed our team much better than I did. Thank you for an excellent experience all around.

##### Feedback from me for Little Shop

For Mark Stover:
> Mark, what can I say… You once again didn’t hesitate to tackle what I consider to be the trickiest part of the project: The cart and its PORO extraction and more complex logic. I only wish I could have been in your brain as you worked through that so I could have soaked up how to replicate in the future. Thank you for your commitment, positive attitude, serious technical chops, and hard work on this project. Really great experience working with you again.

Natalie Barron:
> Thank you for your contributions to this project! I really appreciate you showing up and tackling the things you implemented and bringing an air of positivity to the group experience overall. Again, your strong communication skills were noticed and appreciated. Thank you for being a great team member!

Stephanie Bentley:
> Working with you was really great. I actually had a blast writing and running tests and working through code with you. I feel like I learned a lot more on this project than in past projects because how we tackled problems together. Thank you also for bring your mentor resources to our project and for coming in all weekend with me to hammer out our code. You are curious, positive, willing to do whatever it takes for our team, and always kept us on the TDD path when we started to stray. Your technical skills, research and problem-resolution skills, and communication/teamplayer skills are strong. Hope we get to work together again!

#### **Posse**

Wozniak Posse
> I participated in the posse as a member. Love this posse!

#### **Playing a Part**

Imposters Lunch
> This mod, I co-led the Imposters Lunch group each week. We meet each Wednesday at lunch and provided an open discussion format and safe space for our members to talk about Turing-related issues they are experiencing with regard to imposter syndrome, confidence, learning challenges, insecurity, and other topics. We allowed members to sign up to practice their lightning talks to the group and also integrated a fun confidence-building activity called “battle decks” in which our group members could opt in to practice speaking in front of a group about an on-the-fly topic generated by the whole group. Then, the speaker must speak about the topic in the context of a slide deck composed of unrelated slides that aren’t necessarily relevant to the topic. These exercises both helped the speaker build confidence and helped the entire group bond over laughter at what were usually pretty funny battle deck presentations by members. My favorite thing about Imposters is providing a place in which all feel welcome and where those struggling with imposter syndrome could physically be among others feeling the same way; a key part of dealing with it is knowing you aren’t alone and deriving strength and confidence from relationships with others who feel the same way.

Joan Clarke Society
> I also led a morning workshop on unconscious bias at a Joan Clarke Society meeting one week. I used some resources from NCWIT to prepare and present the material, including going through an interactive video experience with the group to gauge bias sensitivity. I then led a group discussion in which we reviewed a few different common scenarios in which bias was implicit and talked through ways we could intervene or counter bias successfully in each scenario.

------------------

## Final Review

> #### Notes ( Leave blank for reviewers )

> #### Outcome ( Leave blank for reviewers )
