# B4 Portfolio Template

## Area of Emphasis
I want to learn more about workflow and working on a team where not everybody
 has the same role

## JS Assessment

Pass

* What was your biggest technical challenge?
Knowing the difference between a JS object and a JSON object.

* What did you like the most about the challenge?
That I was able to finish it with minimal research.

* How did you solve that challenge? What was your approach?
Writing tests and making them pass.

* What did you learn?
That JS isn't that bad.  It's just a little ugly.  

## Technical Communication Assessment

Pass

* What was your biggest challenge?
Not saying the wrong things.  Just saying the right things.

* What did you like the most about the challenge?
Immediate feedback.  

* How did you solve that challenge? What was your approach?
Honesty.

* What did you learn?
I learned that I still have a tendency to be too harsh with the truth.  


## Quantified Self

Include a reflection answering the following questions:

* What was your biggest technical challenge?
GO. Connecting to the database and scanning query results.  

* How did you solve that challenge? What was your approach?
Asking for lots of help and reading docs.  

* What did you like the most about the challenge?
Doing the same thing in multiple languages is a great way to compare them.  I'm going
to do something like this whenever I want to learn a new language.

* What are three technical concepts you learned during this project?
That arrays have fixed lengths in real life.  
The difference between compiled and interpreted languages.  
The difference between pointers and values.  

* If you could change one thing about your technical approach, what would it be and why?
I'd read more first before getting into code.  This is better than having no clue
in the beginning and wasting a lot of time.  You realize eventually you need to
read, so do it in the beginning.

* What was the experience like working with a pair while learning something new?
We didn't work in pairs for Quantified Self, but we did for our capstone, and
learning while working together is frustrating.  

## Capstone Project

Include a reflection answering the following questions:

* What was your biggest technical challenge?
Dealing with form data.  

* How did you solve that challenge? What was your approach?
Lots of reading and studying.  

* What did you like the most about the challenge?
Having personal control over what the project was.  I like the artistic license.

* What are three technical concepts you learned during this project?
Uploading form data, lots of JS string parsing methods, the importance of documentation.

## Open Source Project

Include a reflection answering the following questions:

* What codebase did you contribute to?
Open Food Network.  

* What was your biggest technical challenge?
Understanding the problem I was trying to fix and doing it on a different os
than what the rest of the team uses.  

* How did you solve that challenge? What was your approach?
I asked questions.  

* What did you like the most about the challenge?
It let me know that the world of developers is very friendly and inviting.  

* What are three technical concepts you learned during this project?
File splitting and comparing, old browser compatibility, following documentation

## Feedback

What's one piece of meaningful feedback you received during B4? What have you done or going to do regarding this feedback?
The thing I'm going to think about the most is coming up with a convincing answer
as to why I want to be a developer.  

## Gear Up

Write a reflection about the process of planning/revising a Gear Up session and facilitating the session. Did you enjoy the experience? What was challenging? What was most rewarding?
Since our group had such a good idea, planning was easy.  I wouldn't say I enjoyed it, however.  
Like the lightning talks, if I don't have an original idea that I'm very excited
about, the whole thing feels forced, and forcing people is never good.  

## Community Involvement

How else did you give back to the community this inning? Why do you think this is a required part of the Turing experience?
Just being around sometimes when I don't want to be.  Earlier mod students find
their way into the later mods' classrooms I learned, and being here gave me a chance
to help people.  

## Going Forward

What three skills (professional and/or technical) are you going to take forward with you during your next job post-Turing?
Keeping documentation current (huge), staying in communication with my team (including managers),
and just learning as much and as fast as I can.  

## Professional Development

(https://calendar.google.com/calendar/r/week/2018/9/27)
* Link to 30-day post-grad job search action plan using [this template](https://github.com/turingschool/career-development-curriculum/blob/master/module_four/post_grad_plan.md)
* Prepare a summarized version of your professional story to share during the portfolio review. This is a 1-2 minute sharing highlighting who you are, why you are in software, and what's next in your career.
* Prepare and share your Turing story during week six.
