# B4 Portfolio Template

## Area of Emphasis

What do you want to focus on this inning? What do you hope to accomplish by graduation?

I wanted to get more familiar with DevOps and chef and I had planned to get an offer before graduation.

## Assessment

Include your final outcome (pass/fail) and a reflection based on answering the following questions:

* What was your biggest technical challenge?
- Javascript in general. 
- Learning how to properly organize my javascript.
* What did you like the most about the challenge?
- It was neat working with a rails API and getting more proficiency with that.
* How did you solve that challenge? What was your approach?
- I broke out files as I felt was necissary.
- I did my best to get the full use out of JS.
* What did you learn?
- I learned how to JS a little bit better.

## Quantified Self

Include a reflection answering the following questions:

* What was your biggest technical challenge?
- Learning express and getting over my adversion to server side JS.
* How did you solve that challenge? What was your approach?
- I learned express and learned how to fully utilize KNEX and learned it was very similar to AR.
* What did you like the most about the challenge?
- Learning KNEX.
* What are three technical concepts you learned during this project?
- Using KNEX to interfase with a DB
- Learning express in general and how to organize my express app in a way that makes sense to me
- How dificult it is to make a front end site that behaves as you would expect it would on the modern web.
* If you could change one thing about your technical approach, what would it be and why?
- Dive deeper into JS in general, I could have probably made smarter decisions about how to JS if I understood it better.
* What was the experience like working with a pair while learning something new?
- I definitely prefer group/pair projects in genereal and it was definitely a good experience to have someone to bounce ideas off of while learning a completely new concept.

## Capstone Project

Include a reflection answering the following questions:

* What was your biggest technical challenge?
- Learning a whole new framework for DevOps which is not quite WebDev.
* How did you solve that challenge? What was your approach?
- I spent many hours on learn.chef.io and went through tutorials and then synthesized that into my own knowlege.
* What did you like the most about the challenge?
- Being able to really explore what I wanted.
* What are three technical concepts you learned during this project?
- Chef in genereal
- InSpec testing
- ChefSpec testing.

## Feedback

What's one piece of meaningful feedback you received during B4? What have you done or going to do regarding this feedback?

- Stop saying probaly, maybe, etc and use more direct laguage
- Organize better.

## Gear Up

Write a reflection about the process of planning/revising a Gear Up session and facilitating the session. Did you enjoy the experience? What was challenging? What was most rewarding?

- Seeing the feedback was most rewarding. I definitely thought it was a good experience and I thought we had just enough time to make it good.

## Community Involvement

How else did you give back to the community this inning? Why do you think this is a required part of the Turing experience?

- It seems that all my questions and answers on the DevOps channel has made it a bit more active
- Supported a lot in my posse.

## Going Forward

What three skills (professional and/or technical) are you going to take forward with you during your next job post-Turing?

-  Better oranizational skills
-  Chef experience
-  Better technical communication.

