# Alex Koch - M2 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

(What did you set out to accomplish this module?)
I set out to pass the module and learn how to develop in a rails environment and I set out to help out Pahlka with as much as I can and help get out a project with them.
I also set out to get PrideFest float and booth set up and ready to go, I have not finished that yet, but we are working with a lot of people and getting it finished up.

----------------------

## Self-Assessment

| Section | Category | Score (optional) |
| --- | ----- | --- |
| A | **End-of-Module Assessment** | 3 |
| B | **Individual Work & Projects** | 2.5 |
| C | **Group Projects** | 3 |
| D | **Professional Development** | 3 |
| E | **Feedback & Community Participation** | 3 |

-----------------------

## A: End of Module Assessment

 Category | Score (optional) |
| ----- | --- |
| **Pairing Assessment** | PASS |
| **Written Diagnostic** | PASS |

----

## B: Individual Work & Projects


#### Tutorials: Blogger & Mix Master
I really liked Blogger, it showed me how quickly you can get a rails app up and get a basic dynamic site working. That was my favorite project so far.

Mix Master was a bit more of a struggle, but still pretty decent. It defenitely helped me solidify more of the database relationships.

#### Projects: Job Tracker & Rails Mini Project

Job Tracker also helped further solidify my database understanding and was a pretty neat project to go through.

Rails mini project was definitely a struggle doing everything on my own but was a good way to "take off the training wheels" of all the other tutorials.

## C: Group Work & Projects

 ### **Bike Share** 

Bike share was a lot of work all at once and really tought me how to query active record really well.


 ### **Little Shop of Orders**

 Little shop showed me how awesome an agile team can work together, and how well things can go if broken out really well. It really helped me put everything from the past mod all together and get a project out.

 #### Feedback:

Don't be late, great styling.

| CATEGORY | Bike Share (scores optional) | Little Shop (scores optional) |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **Project Spec** | [Bike Spec](https://github.com/turingschool/bike-share/blob/master/README.md) | [Shop Spec](http://backend.turing.io/module2/projects/little_shop) |
| **Github Repo** | [Bike Repo](https://github.com/alex-w-k/bike-share) | [Shop Repo](https://github.com/nickedwards109/little-shop) |
| **Functional Expectations** | 2 | 4 |
| **Views** | x | 3 |
| **Controllers** | x | 4 |
| **Models** | x | 4 |
| **ActiveRecord** | 3 | x |
| **User Experience and Conventions** | 3 | 4 |
| **Code Organization/Quality** | 3 | x |
| **Testing** | 3 | 4 |
| **Working Collaboratively** | 4 | 4 |

## D: Professional Skills


### Gear Up
#### Empathy

Empathy is a really important tool in not just development but in regular life as well. It can help you understand better where someone is coming from and it can help you build better applications for people with some dificulties interacting with technology.

#### Parable of the Polygon/Automation

* [GitHub URL]()

This really showed me how pervasive a bias can be and how it can last for so much longer than you would think. It has really forced me to reconsider what I deem as an acceptible amount of people that are different from me at a job, it's not just one or two people but needs to be a strong subsection in order for everyone to feel comfortable with it.


## E: Community Participation

### Playing a Part

Getting the booth and the float secured for Turing and for my NonProfit. I spent a lot of time with Pahlka posse and I helped them out with building out the backend API for a food locator app. That was super helpful to learn how to build out an API, and learned that it's ot as scary as I thought it'd be. I also got experience loading a rails app up on a Google Cloud Platform host and experience on the DevOps side of things, which was really interesting and helpful to me because that's what I eventually want to do. 

------------------

## Final Review

### Notes

( Leave blanks for reviewers )

### Outcome

( Leave blanks for reviewers )
