# B4 Portfolio Template

## Area of Emphasis

What do you want to focus on this inning? What do you hope to accomplish by graduation?
  * My goal was to learn JavaScript, Mocha/Chai, React, and React Native.

## JS Assessment

Include your final outcome (pass/fail) and a reflection based on answering the following questions:

Pass

* What was your biggest technical challenge?
  * Regex. 
* What did you like the most about the challenge?
  * Learning Regex in a short amount of time.
* How did you solve that challenge? What was your approach?
  * I read the MDN documents and attempted a few tries before the solution worked.
* What did you learn?
  * I learned that I can do `.match` to do the same thing.

## Technical Communication Assessment

Include your final outcome (pass/fail) and a reflection based on answering the following questions:

Pass

* What was your biggest challenge?
  * Designing a vending machine.
* What did you like the most about the challenge?
  * It made me think about the things I needed to create a vending machine.
  * It allowed me to reflect on my process - how I broke down the problem and came up with a solution.
* How did you solve that challenge? What was your approach?
  * I first thought about the classes I needed to create a vending machine and for each class, what their state and behavior would be.
* What did you learn?
  * Katelyn gave me great feedback after, saying that my solution could use a bit more separation of responsibilities with more classes handling different parts of the app. The feedback was really helpful as I've started to think about abstraction, encapsulation, inheritance, and polymorphism at the design stage.

## Quantified Self

Include a reflection answering the following questions:

* What was your biggest technical challenge?
  * To get the `GET /api/v1/meals` to return a specific format. 

* How did you solve that challenge? What was your approach?
  * I learned about LEFT INNER JOIN.

* What did you like the most about the challenge?
  * I feel like my SQL knowledge has improved drastically. 

* What are three technical concepts you learned during this project?
  1. Ajax
  2. event listeners
  3. response handlers

* What was the experience like working with a pair while learning something new?
  * My experience working with Wil was very positive. 

## Capstone Project

Include a reflection answering the following questions:

* What was your biggest technical challenge?
  * My biggest technical challenge was learning a new framework on my own. For my capstone, I decided to work with completely new technology - React Native, Express.js and MongoDB.
  * The process of learning React Native was both terrifying and filled with insecurities. The first few days of me diving into learning how to even start up a React Native front end project and setting up Express with Mongoose resulted in me realizing that I wasn't as good of a programmer as I thought I was (a much needed reality check). Thoughts like, 'Why is this taking me so long to learn?', 'Why is it taking me so long to solve these problems?', and 'Maybe I'm not built for this' plagued me for many days.

* What did you like the most about the challenge?
  * That I am still a novice developer but am on my way to becoming a better developer every day. 
  * Seven months ago, I would have not been able to teach myself a new framework or a new database on my own. I was barely understanding data structures and data types. Thanks to Turing, I am able to learn a technology like React Native, known to have a steep learning curve, in three short weeks.

* What are three technical concepts you learned during this project?
  * Navigation/Router
  * Styling in React Native
  * `ComponentDidMount`

## Open Source Project

Include a reflection answering the following questions:

* What codebase did you contribute to?
  * Spree

* What was your biggest technical challenge?
  * Finding a good `first-time issue`

* How did you solve that challenge? What was your approach?
  * Mike and I decided to pick the lowest hanging fruit - modifying their header size to be smaller on mobile.
  * I also found a bug on their website which I submitted an issue for.

* What did you like the most about the challenge?
  * Diving into a large codebase, learning about what the gem did,  and trying to solve an active issue.

* What are three technical concepts you learned during this project?
  * Protocol for starting an open-source contribution
  * Spree
  * Gem dependencies

## Feedback

What's one piece of meaningful feedback you received during B4? What have you done or going to do regarding this feedback?
  * Everyone told me to sleep. I did not sleep that much throughout the mod but plan to hibernate once this is all over. 

## Gear Up

Write a reflection about the process of planning/revising a Gear Up session and facilitating the session. Did you enjoy the experience? What was challenging? What was most rewarding?
  * I enjoyed this experience although it was very challenging. It's difficult to do a Gear Up in mod 4 when you're learning a new language, new frameworks, new concepts, etc. Furthermore, it was during the time in which we had to work on our capstone. I wish the Gear Up planning took place earlier in the module when we had more time.

## Community Involvement

How else did you give back to the community this inning? Why do you think this is a required part of the Turing experience?
  * I gave back by mentoring a few lower-mods students (both front-end and back-end).
  * Turing is 100% focused on student success, therefore, it is good to be involved with the community and to support one another any way we can.

## Going Forward

What three skills (professional and/or technical) are you going to take forward with you during your next job post-Turing?
  1. How to learn (a new language, a new framework, etc) 
  2. How to contribute to open source projects
  3. How to be a good teammate / pairing partner / peer

## Professional Development

* Link to 30-day post-grad job search action plan using [this template](https://github.com/turingschool/career-development-curriculum/blob/master/module_four/post_grad_plan.md): https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=ucfrpn4dr1tvo094cu2jq2e31s%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FDenver
* Prepare a summarized version of your professional story to share during the portfolio review. This is a 1-2 minute sharing highlighting who you are, why you are in software, and what's next in your career.
* Prepare and share your Turing story during week six.
