Privilege Statements and Reflection (15 min)

Review the following list of statements that describe the different ways people in our society may experience privilege or marginalization. Put a check mark next to statements you agree with. When you finish the list, write on the questions listed below.

Experience Statements

_X_ Someone has made assumptions about you based on how you look.
___ You come from a single-parent household.
___ You can make mistakes and not have people attribute your behavior to flaws in your racial or gender group.
_X_ You have always assumed you’ll go to college.
___ You have an invisible illness or disability.
___ You have been a victim of sexual harassment.
___ You rely, or have relied, primarily on public transportation.
_X_ You do your best work when you are in a quiet space.
___ You studied the culture of your ancestors in elementary school.
_X_ You often feel/felt that your parents are/were too busy to spend time with you.
___ You would never think twice about calling the police when trouble occurs.
_X_ English is your first language.
___ There was ever substance abuse in your household.
_X_ You've ever felt uncomfortable sharing your political attitudes because they would be held against you.
___ You constantly feel unsafe walking alone at night.
___ Someone in your household suffered or suffers from mental illness.
___ You were ever made fun of or bullied for something you could not change or was beyond your control.
___ You have ever been spoken over because you could not articulate your thoughts fast enough.
_X_ You can show affection for your romantic partner in public without fear of ridicule or violence.


## Once finished reviewing the list, write in your notebook on these questions.

- What were some factors that you have never thought of before?

The majority (by number) of people in the world and the USA are functionally invisible to people that have power. The people in power don't notice the shit the rest of the world deals with, and can pretend it doesn't happen.

- What question made you think most? If you could add a question, what would it be?

- Select one of the statements that describes a seeming disadvantage that you would feel comfortable discussing.

> You would call the police if you felt the need

Police are nice to rich white people. (myself included). When they commit crimes against others, and all the other rich white people say "it's a bad apple", the conversation is over before it's begun.



- What did that/those experience(s) feel like?
- If you were trying to describe that experience to someone else, what would that person need to do to help you continue to feel connected/trusting of them, even if they didn't share the experience?
- Select one of the statements that describes a seeming advantage/privilege that you would feel comfortable discussing.
- What did that/those experience(s) feel like?
- If you were trying to describe that experience to someone else who hadn't shared that experience with you, how would that affect your trust with them? What could that person do to help you sustain trust? What could you do?


## Final Reflection

We'll take a few minutes to tie this really complex topic back to what we, as individuals, can do today to connect and do right by others who are affected by the disparities we discussed in groups. Remember, privilege is not a concept we're using to make individuals feel guilty, rather it is a framework in which we can better understand each other and stay connected in spite of widely varying experiences.

What is _my_ work to do?

Teach what I know, encourage others to feel confident in themselves. I have learned a lot about that, so rather than try to teach about what I don't know, I should just play to my strengths. 
