# Lee Chow - M1 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

What did you set out to accomplish this module? Were you successful?

I wanted to develop a strong foundation with Ruby, but more generally to develop
a good base of computer science knowledge. I wanted to setup the base knowledge,
so that I could learn new languages and keep moving forward successfully in future
mods. I feel I was successful. I think I have a good foundation at this point to
build upon. I think I have the skillset now to be able to learn new languages and
frameworks without feeling overwhelmed!

What did you struggle most with this module? What did you learn from that struggle?

Getting used to test-driven development was one of the biggest changes for me. It
was a big shift in my mindset, since I had picked up bad habits from playing around
with programming before my time at Turing. I did learn to be adaptable in adopting
this process. I do continue to struggle with the discipline of writing my tests first,
and testing at every step.

More generally, it was a struggle getting used to so much uncertainty in the learning
process here at Turing. It is very different from all the previous schooling I have done.
I really enjoyed this though, I definitely feel I have learned much more effectively
in this manner, and concepts have been assimilated better in my long-term memory.

## Projects

What were your favorite projects this module? Least favorite? Why?

Favorite project was either Date Night or Black Thursday because both were very challenging.
For both of these projects I had to reach out to others for help, because it was beyond
my current abilities. Least favorite was Credit Check, probably because it overall was
easier for me. But the level of challenge increased quickly :)

What did you learn from your independent projects?

How to be comfortable with uncertainty and to struggle. I learned eventually not to be
too stubborn and ask for help when needed. I do enjoy individual projects more, as I
can work at my own pace.

What did you learn from your paired projects?

At times I had to fall into a teaching type of role, which was a bit uncomfortable
for me since I feel I am quite new to these concepts as well. However, I hope that
I was helpful in explaining concepts to my partner. I also learned how to be more
flexible and incorporate other people's ideas into the project. I'm noticing I like
to have control in projects, and need to get better at giving up this need for control.

## Community

What was your favorite Gear Up? Least favorite? Why?

I liked the Gear Up on coding for social change. This is a very new concept to me,
and I would like to be involved more with this either for my career or through volunteering
efforts later on. My least favorite was the getting better at difficult things lesson.
I felt it was a good reminder of concepts, but did not feel there was that much
new information personally.

How did you contribute to the Turing community this module?

I definitely could have done more, but was pretty focused on learning all these
new concepts. I felt I contributed by helping out some of my classmates when they
asked for help. I also joined the Pahlka group, which I hope to continue with.

What would you like to do to contribute next module?

Continue with the Pahlka group and begin working on a project! I would also like
to be resource for the incoming BE-Mod1 students if I am to move forward. 

## Self-Assessment Scores

Fill in how you would grade yourself from 1-4 in the following categories this module.

| Category                     | Score |
| -----------------------------| ----- |
| **Individual Projects**      |   3   |
| **Group Projects**           |   3   |
| **Professional Development** |   3   |
| **Community**                |   3   |
| **Pentathlon**               |   3   |
