# Lee Chow - M2 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

What did you set out to accomplish this module? Were you successful?
>> I started this module wanting to be able to make a Rails app for people with Parkinson's. I feel successful as I have built out the beginnings of this app for my Rails mini-project. Through the projects I feel I have a solid understanding of the basics of Rails.

What did you struggle most with this module? What did you learn from that struggle?
>> The first 3 weeks of the module were hard for me in terms of getting used to so many new technologies and their respective syntaxes. 
I also had trouble visualizing database relationships and joins tables. I met with a mentor who gave me several resources to work on this and that
helped a lot! I think just repetition with setting up Rails projects helped me, and I feel the second half of Mod 2 felt much smoother.
Also I think doing my own project for the Rails mini-project helped a lot as it pushed me to learn some more difficult database relationships. 

## LINK TO BLOG POST: 
https://medium.com/@leepuppychow/consuming-the-pubmed-api-in-a-rails-app-e96630806638 

## Projects

What were your favorite projects this module? Least favorite? Why?
>>FAVORITE: Rails mini-project. It was awesome to design a project from scratch. It really showed me a mini-version of what this may look like in practice.
Starting with wireframes, sketching out how I wanted to application to flow, and writing out my own users stories really helped. This project really showed me
how useful TDD is (while in mod 1, I did not fully realize its value). 
>>LEAST FAVORITE: Maybe Bike Share just because at that time I felt like I was struggling quite a bit to put all these pieces together.
The project itself I feel was fine, and I learned a lot from it. Afterwards I realized how helpful it was to start in Sinatra especially 
in understanding what was going on with each route. 

What did you learn from your independent projects?
>> The Rails mini-project taught me a lot about database relationships. Accessing attributes on a joins table, using accepts_nested_resource_for a
and fields_for helpers in forms. It also gave me some practice in consuming a couple APIs and how to parse that data in Rails. I also enjoyed using
the chartkick gem!

What did you learn from your paired projects?
>> Reviewed authentication/authorization more. Learned how to utilize a cart in Little Shop, and how to utilize a PORO. 

## Community

What was your favorite Gear Up? Least favorite? Why?
>> FAVORITE: Attention Economy. I was not aware of this concept and it introduced me to the ethics in designing an app and to some degree how we manipulate our users.
>> LEAST FAVORITE: Be Your Own Ally. I felt each example situation was different, but all boiled down to the same strategies. 

How did you contribute to the Turing community this module?
>> Continued involvement with Pahlka, and I have partnered with a couple Mod 1 students (haha, not sure if I was helpful!)

What would you like to do to contribute next module?
>> Continue with Pahlka if I can. Maybe do a Lightning talk at a Wrap-Up if I feel knowledeable enough in a subject area!

Posse Experience? 
>> Overall I really enjoyed my posse. Brandon Stewart helped to coordinate our posse, and I met with a mentor through my posse. 

## Self-Assessment Scores

Fill in how you would grade yourself from 1-4 in the following categories this module.

| Category                     | Score |
| -----------------------------| ----- |
| **Individual Projects**      |   4   |
| **Group Projects**           |   3   |
| **Professional Development** |   3   |
| **Community**                |   3   |
| **Final Written**            |   3   |
| **Final Timed**              |   3   |
