# Mike Heft - M2 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

What did you set out to accomplish this module? Were you successful?
>I wanted to learn more about creating and consuming APIs. I was not as successful as I would have liked. I *was* able to implement oauth in Little Shop, so that was fun though.

What did you struggle most with this module? What did you learn from that struggle?
>I think I struggled the most with the authentication and authorization. I was going through some stressful things at home(which Sal and Ilana were fantastic in just being there if needed). Because of the stresses at home, I wasn't sleeping well which contributed to not absorbing as much as I should have at the time. What I learned was, that I need to seperate what is going on at home a little better; and if that is not entirely possible, then I *do* have the capability to learn it.

## Projects

What were your favorite projects this module? Least favorite? Why?
>I had 3 favorites. The first was Bike Share, because I really liked working with Active Record and I was able to implement some Javascript in the landing page for that. The second was the mini project. That is something that I've been thinking about for a while ever since I made the decision to attend Turing. And the final was Little Shop. I really liked this one, because it has real world applications. Also that I was able to implement oauth which I had *heard* was hard. 

What did you learn from your independent projects?
>That I can actually figure out what needs to be done without much of a starting point. Also that user stories are super important.

What did you learn from your paired projects?
>That I really need to learn how to seperate my stresses from home and my work time. The stresses at home tended to make me more short with team mates that would aggrevate me with them not adhering to aggreed upon workflow or just general lack of caring what the rest of the team thought.

## Community

What was your favorite Gear Up? Least favorite? Why?
>I never really have a favorite gear up so far. I understand the need for them, but the reason for them(as far as I can see), is to make straight white males(like me) aware of things that I've already come to understand. I grew up with certain views and outlooks which when exposed to conflicting views changed my own views based on logic. The best example of that was the view that I was brought up with about the LGBTQ community. Then my cousin came out, which changed my views because whatever I had heard about that didn't make sense when applied to my cousin and therefore made me think more and see that the way it was presented to me growing up was wrong.

How did you contribute to the Turing community this module?
>I never feel like I contribute enough. This is such a great community that has helped me tremendously throughout my time here. I guess the best way I helped out was to talk with mod1 sutdents that were stressing about repeating and relaying my own experiences to hopefully allay any of their fears. Also pairing with mod1 students when they need assistance on their projects.

What would you like to do to contribute next module?
>Probably to be able to pair more effectively with lower mod students. Also to maybe user my repeating experiences and a positive boost to those that are worried about the perceived stigma or whatever may be stressing them out about it.

## Self-Assessment Scores

Fill in how you would grade yourself from 1-4 in the following categories this module.

| Category                     | Score |
| -----------------------------| ----- |
| **Individual Projects**      |   3   |
| **Group Projects**           |   3   |
| **Professional Development** |   2   |
| **Community**                |   2   |
| **Final Written**            |   4   |
| **Final Timed**              |   3.5   |
