# July Tran - M2 Portfolio

This module, I sought to enhance my community involvement while gaining the technical skills of the Mod 2 curriculum.

### Goals
1. Technical: learn Module 2 curriculum
  * Know material well enough to implement it individually
2. Technical: Play with API's
  * Get creative
3. Soft skills: achieve a high level of communication skills
  * Maintain communication even when tired/stressed
  * Improve on turning thoughts into words during pairing sessions
  * Give and receive actionable feedback
4. Community:
  * co-lead initiative to reduce Turing's carbon footprint

### Attendance
I missed the morning class session one Friday and came late, within 5 minutes, several times.

### Work

#### Non-evaluated projects
##### Blog Post
[Paperclip Party!!](http://julyytran.github.io/2016/03/08/paperclip-party.html)
##### Sinatra CRUD
[Skill Inventory](https://github.com/julyytran/skill-inventory-crud)
##### Tool Chest
[Tool Chest](https://github.com/julyytran/tool_chest)
##### Mix Master
[Mix Mastah](https://github.com/julyytran/mix_master)
##### Rails Mini Project
[giphyfavfav](https://github.com/julyytran/giphyfavfav)

#### Evaluated projects

##### Rush Hour
[Github](https://github.com/julyytran/rush_hour)

- Functional Expectations: 3
- Test-Driven Development: 3.5
- Encapsulation / Breaking - Logic into Components: 3.5
- Fundamental Ruby & Style: 3
- Sinatra / Web and Business Logic: 3.5
- View Layer: 3
##### Notes
Strange behavior with socialLogin hour-by-hour breakdown and os/browser breakdown. All other functionality exists and is implemented. Added web interface for creating, editing, and deleting accounts.

##### Little Shop
[Github](https://github.com/julyytran/gifsforgood)

[Heroku](http://gifsforgood.herokuapp.com/)

- Feature Completeness: 3
- Views: 3
- Controllers: 3
- Models: 3
- Testing: 3
- Usability: 3
- Workflow: 4

##### Notes
* When checking out if you go back without paying, cart is empty and no other way to pay for gif. Maybe drop a payment option in the orders page.
* Some logic is leaking through in the views. Saw a formatted price, and a map for a collection dropdown box. An unnecessary variable in a path helper. Some alignment issues when items are retired. This issue is related to a conditional in the iteration of gifs.
* In controllers some room for POROS - but generally skinny and good code. Want to look into orders_controller update for the quantity variable

### Mid Module Assessment
Evaluator: Andrew
- Analytic/Algorithmic Thinking: 3
- Ruby Syntax & Standard Library: 3
- Rails Syntax & API: 3
- Rails Style: 3
- Testing: 3
- Collaboration: 3

##### Notes
Overall very good.
Small stumbles on using create instead of new at times, but after collaborating was able to generate the idea herself.
Issue with relationships at first, but was able to figure it out on her own.
Testing was good.
Collaboration was good, but was directed to focus on this more.

### End of Module Assessment
Evaluator: Andrew
- Analytic/Algorithmic Thinking: 4
- Ruby Syntax & Standard Library: 3
- Rails Syntax & API: 4
- Rails Style: 4
- Testing: 3
- Collaboration: 4

##### Notes
Could have created more robust test

### Protocol

#### DTR Memo
[gifs_for_good](https://gist.github.com/julyytran/b4bda806252ad63a98c7)

#### Pull Requests
[gifs_for_good PR1](https://github.com/julyytran/gifsforgood/pull/107)

[gifs_for_good PR2](https://github.com/julyytran/gifsforgood/pull/66)

#### README
[gifs_for_good](https://github.com/julyytran/gifsforgood)

### Community

#### Mentor Sessions
I met with Brian Winterling during week 2, Tan Doan a couple times, and Robert Gu during week 6.

#### Posse Challenges
[Golick yo'self](https://github.com/bethsecor/golick_posse_challenges)

#### Feedback Given

“Working with Beth on various community projects here at Turing has been a phenomenal learning experience for me. Though we both share similar goals, we have very different approaches to tackling them, and I have learned so much from observing Beth do her thing. Beth has the talent of being able to uplift and empower others and lead without being in the spotlight. Noticing this in her has helped me learn to refrain from dominating a group and to try to heighten the involvement of others. I really appreciate Beth’s commitment to our community here and the greater community, and I look forward to continue working with and learning from her!” - July

“I really appreciate Nick’s community participation. I absolutely love the emojis and other fun things Nick contributes to our community, and I know that he actually takes quite a thoughtful approach to them as a means to build community while also respecting others. I also appreciate Nick’s involvement with environment_variables; his passion is evident and he consistently follows through with his commitments.     Additionally, I was pleased to see Nick be a Gear Up facilitator both times. I think he could improve as a facilitator by keeping the group more on topic, putting more effort into engaging more quiet members of the group, and refraining from dominating the conversation himself. Nick has shown excellent community engagement and I would challenge him to take on even more of a leadership role in our community.” - July

"Brian is a very thoughtful thinker and flexible person. I appreciate his ability to carefully consider all the ways of approaching a problem and his openness to exploration. His ability to adapt and his fun, supportive personality make him a great partner. I think Brian would benefit from taking a full TDD approach, as he has a tendency to implement features before completing the writing of a test. I also think Brian could have more confidence in his skills and ideas, as they are something to be proud of. I've noticed Brian's git workflow improve through this project as well and am sure they will continue to improve as he matures as a developer. I'm very glad to have Brian as a colleague. " - July

 "Heidi is a dedicated worker who clearly enjoys programming and is a good partner to work with. I have learned a lot from working with Heidi because she thinks very differently from me. I like that she stands up for her ideas and I think she would benefit from working on communicating those ideas more clearly to others. She also thinks a few steps ahead, which sometimes hinders what's directly in front, but at other times is beneficial. Heidi is also a pro at git rebasing. To build on her git skills, she could work on making a habit of pulling and running tests before each work session. " -July

"Working with David on our mini rails project was a real pleasure. He was an extremely collaborative partner to pair with, and his easygoing, jovial personality added to the enjoyment of pairing with him. I also really appreciate David's community involvement in environment_variables, a group focused on trying to reduce Turing's carbon impact. For future modules, I would challenge David to increase his involvement in the community and pick up a side project, as he is more than capable of achieving all these things." - July

#### Feedback Received
"July brought our group an awesome and humorous idea for our little shop project which speaks volume to the creativity and good sense of humor she brings to a team. She grasps new ideas quickly and is takes a methodical approach to writing her tests that I have made a point to emulate. I was also impressed by how involved she is in meaningful community causes while still making time to flourish in this difficult program. At times, July could benefit from describing her ideas in fashion that is more patient and open to questions.” -Brian Rippeto

"I grouped with July on a Rails project to implement a quirky storefront model. I enjoyed several things about our time working together. Notably, July is dedicated and passionate about both code and side projects/causes. However, she also proved to be flexible and adaptable with the challenges that come with working in a group. Sometimes her flexibility left me a little confused because I wouldn’t be quite sure what approach she was interested in (deep down). So I would encourage her to to accept that differing viewpoints are just to be expected and not be afraid of causing disruption by staking a claim on a particular technical approach. But I am constantly impressed by her insights and comfort working with code." -Heidi

"July and I have partnered on several community projects here at Turing, including a student-led session on social justice in tech, planning a GearUp on “Allyship” and organizing a student group on environmental issues. She has impressed me with her insight, activism, and intelligent approach to tackling community issues. Though she has many strengths in these space, my favorite part of watching July work is seeing her engage people around her. For example, we were discussing tasks that our environmental group needed to tackle, and when a topic came up that she knew one of the students would be well-suited to, she directly called on that individual and asked if she’d be willing to take it on. It was a good fit for the group, the task and the individual, but I doubt the individual would have spoken up unprompted. July seems especially talented at identifying these matches and using her leadership to direct the resources and passions of a group toward common goals. I’m thrilled to have someone at Turing I can partner with on the issues she and I have tackled." -Beth Sebian

"I can not say enough kind words about July. We got to know each other better in Mod 2 and although we haven’t worked with each other directly on a project, we have collaborated on other things. Not only is she a great student (and willing to help out anybody who needs it) but she also has great initiative in driving positive change for our community. One of her passions is environmental responsibility - which is near and dear to my heart as well. When I heard that her and Beth Sebian were starting an Environmental Responsibility club I knew I wanted to be involved. I was blown away by how great of a leader she is, and staying on top of everybody to make sure that we followed through with our goals. This led to changes in the way we recycle at school and the first student-led Gear Up session at Turing. Again this was a collaboration effort between her and Beth, but they both put in a lot of hard work. I think it was a success, and hopefully there's many more to come in the future. July also has a great personality, and anytime I’m feeling down I know I can go to her to get cheered up. She is the type of person I can see driving positive change in the world, and I’m proud to call her a friend of mine.” - Nicholas

"It was really fun to work with July on our mini rails project.  I appreciated her extremely collaborative and laid back personality.  July has an amazing ability to look at a problem and take a moment to step back and think it through.  I find her community involvement to be very inspirational as well.  It's quite amazing that she started environmental variables and played a pivotal role in putting on two gear ups this module.  I would like to push July to taking on a side project as I think that she has some amazing ideas and it would be really cool to see what she comes up with." - David

#### Community Participation
I co-founded and co-lead environment_variables, I contributed and served as a facilitator for the Gear Up on allyship, and I contributed and organized the Gear Up on environmental responsibility.

I also attended the following:
  - improv 4/5 sessions
  - 2 Joan Clarke events
  - 3 TAAAP events
  - 2 computability theory meetings
  - 1 LGBTuring event

Additionally, I am the anchor for Golick posse and I co-led a student-led elective on crafting a Gear Up.
### Notes

* Felt that the soft-skill goal fell a little short. Will continue to work on this.
* Great work throughout the module
* Good blogs - not the biggest fan of technical blog posts - interested in non technical blog posts
* Feedback is good and specific.
* Extra curricular work was very impressive.
* Great work this module - keep up the hard work.

### Outcome

Pass
