# Benjamin Ross - M1 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

Throughout this module, my areas of emphasis have been to begin to establish my professional identity as a software developer, and to solidify Module 1 concepts while creating a strategy that will help me to make the most of my time at Turing. It is important that I begin to understand and develop the professional skills that I will utilize in order to open up my professional options.

## Self-Assessment Scores

Fill in how you would grade yourself from 1-4 in the following categories this module.

| Section | Category | Score |
| --- | --- | --- |
| A | **End-of-Module Assessments** | 3 |
| B | **Individual Projects** | 3 |
| C | **Group Projects** | 3 |
| D | **Professional Development** | 3 |
| E | **Community** | 3 |

------------------------------------------------

## A: End of Module Assessment

| Category | Result (pass) |
| ----- | --- |
| Pairing Assessment | 3 | 4 | 3 | 3 | 4 |
| Independent Timed Assessment | 4 | 3 | 3 | 3 | 3 |
| Diagnostic | 3 | 3 |


## B: Individual Projects

| CATEGORY | Credit Check | Jungle Beats | Battleship |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **Project Spec** | [link](http://backend.turing.io/module1/projects/credit_check) | [link](http://backend.turing.io/module1/projects/jungle_beat) | [link](http://backend.turing.io/module1/projects/battleship) |
| **Github** | [link](https://github.com/Benja-Ross/Credit-Check) | [link](https://github.com/Benja-Ross/Jungle-Beats) | [link](https://github.com/Benja-Ross/Battleship) |
| **Functional Expectations** | 3 | 3 | 3 |
| **Test-Driven Development** | na | 4 | 3 |
| **Encapsulation/Breaking Logic into Components** | 3 | 4 | 3 |
| **Fundamental Ruby & Style** | 3 | 3 | 3 |
| **Loop or Recursion** | na | 4 | 3 |


## C: Group Projects

| CATEGORY | Enigma | Headcount |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **Project Spec** | [link](http://backend.turing.io/module1/projects/enigma) | [link](http://backend.turing.io/module1/projects/headcount) |
| **Github** | [link](https://github.com/Benja-Ross/Enigma) | [link](https://github.com/Benjaminpjacobs/headcount) |
| **Functional Expectations** | 3 | 4 |
| **Test-Driven Development** | 3 | 4 |
| **Encapsulation/Breaking Logic into Components** | 2 | 4 |
| **Fundamental Ruby & Style** | 3 | 4 |
| **Enumerable & Collections** | na | 4 |
| **Code Sanitation** | na | 4 |


## D: Professional Development

### Define-the-Relationship (DTR)

[Link](https://gist.github.com/Benja-Ross/7561d3364efd8e408582e6d6de5f0f4c) to DTR Memo from 1 paired project.

### Pair Feedback

Feedback from partner projects.

#### Project 1 (Joel Lindow):

**Feedback for Joel Lindow:**

The purpose of this exercise is for me to practice providing feedback and for you to receive something valuable that you can work on. We've talked at length about so much of this so I can't think of anything new that I can say. Plus the dynamic we had in our pairing was unique, I don't think it's all that useful to break down individual aspects of how we worked together. The reason I feel that way is because once we both become more experienced, I believe the characteristics we bring to a pairing will likely be different. What I can do is emphasize something more general that I feel strongly about. I know that you have a lot on your plate Joel, and I respect the fact that you are at Turing putting the time and effort in to improving your life, and the lives of everyone in your family. Kudos. I know that you feel you have a mountain to climb before you become a competent programmer, but I have to tell you that's just not true. To be honest, I feel like I'm lost a lot of the time myself. I think that that's how it's going to be for a lot of us, for a while. I saw many things clicking with you towards the end of our project, it was great to see. I saw how smart you are when you dig into a subject and how enthusiastic you become. You really gave our partnership a lot of energy at the end when that was just what we needed. Keep it up. I guess for the sake of giving you something to work on in terms of pairing I will mention one thing. I can't really even say if this is a bad thing or not, but when you started to have concepts click and you were getting ideas about what needed to happen, your energy level was quite high. The reason I say I don't know if it's a bad thing or not is because it was sort of two sided. While it was difficult for me to juggle complex ideas in my head along with your exuberantly delivered suggestions, I will say it also injected some much needed spirit into the situation.  Also, most of your ideas were spot on. So if I were to give any suggestion at all, I would say, be aware of the multiple affects your excitement has while coding, and apply strategically.

**Feedback from Joel Lindow:**

It was one heck of a week and we came out looking pretty darn good. Mostly due to your fantastic grasp on the Ruby language. Even as someone with just a few months of exposure to the language, you're making strides that I am truly envious of. Throughout the time we spent working on our project, I was constantly impressed with your drive for completion. Although our goal was not necessarily project completion, you took that challenge very seriously and put in long hours to achieve a working version of our program. I did experience many moments where I couldn't follow the pace that you were moving at, which mostly stemmed from nothing but an enormous knowledge gap between you and I. I've seen your desire to see others succeed and your character proves that you're just as focused on others as you are on yourself. As your knowledge of the Ruby language deepens so will your proficiency in the knowledge of "next level" pairing with other individuals from all skill levels. I would highly suggest that you double down efforts to recognize when your partner might be lost to the point of disconnection. We truly experienced a few tense moments, yet we both came out the other side with a project we could both say we truly contributed to in our own meaningful ways. I appreciate the learning experience we shared and the friendship that we've been able to launch throughout that time. I look forward to the chance that we will collaborate again in the near future and using the lessons learned on this endeavor to make the next project an even more focused and exciting growth experience for both of us. Keep up the great work and never be afraid to step out of your comfort zone!

Your partner in code, Joel Lindow (Junior Software Developer Extraordinaire)

#### Project 2 (Benjamin Jacobs):

**Feedback for Benjamin Jacobs:**

I think that it was very beneficial for me to have you as a partner at this stage of my learning. I had reached a point where it felt as if my progress was plateauing. Working with you made me realize what the next level looks like and showed me many of the things that I need to work on in order to get there. You also showed me what a high degree of protracted focus looks like, and gave me a work ethic to strive for. It was also great to see how fun programming can be with a higher degree of fluency. My feedback for how you might improve is two fold; more communication, and striving to understand your partner’s capabilities and working to incorporate them. With regards to the first suggestion, there were many moments where I was lost on the project. I often tried hard to understand exactly what it was that we were working on. Your processing of ideas is so quick that you weren’t able to communicate them to me effectively while at the same time making forward progress (I am sure if the size of this project wasn’t so enormous this would have been different). A potential strategy you could employ while your partner is at the driver’s seat would be to focus on telling them the functionality or concept you’re trying to achieve, instead of telling them what to type. The second suggestion applies more to an educational context than it will the workplace (I assume). You are a good teacher, while you sometimes talk so fast that it is difficult to catch all of the concepts, you are very articulate. If you were to spend more time trying to evaluate your partner’s ability level, I believe you’d be able to incorporate their talents more into the project, and help them to improve dramatically. All in all, I think that my skills have improved significantly, I am excited for my next project so that I can really see where I stand. I can say for certain that I enjoy programming more, I owe you a lot of thanks for that.

**Feedback from Benjamin Jacobs:**

My parter was excellent to work with and a strong asset to the team. His patience, relentlessly positive attitude, upbeat demeanor, sense of humor and attention to detail kept us on track and in a great head space throughout. He was easy to schedule with and made himself available whenever and where ever it was convenient for me. He was particularly fantastic in pairing sessions tempering my speed with thoughtful design ideas and incisive questions that pushed us in the right direction. My only constructive feedback is that I wish he would have been more vocal with me about when and where he might have been feeling lost/confused/ or simply unsure of the code we were writing. I believe his reticence was probably rooted in his not wanting to "slow me down" or "slow the project down" but I would have much preferred to move slower and him to have gotten even more out of the experience. In the future I hope he can feel comfortable enough in a pairing to be more open about this, it will just make the project stronger. Overall, working with Ben was a phenomenal experience and I thoroughly enjoyed it.

### Job Prep

*  [https://www.linkedin.com/in/benjamin-james-ross/]()

## E: Community

### Gear Up

#### Session 1: Growth Mindset

An important concept to consider while attending Turing, as well as throughout daily life, growth mindset is the understanding that who we are as people and our abilities are not static. We are always changing as people, and that change to some degree can be increased through consciously focusing on our ability to play a part. The more that we understand that we own our learning and have a great degree of control over our skills and intelligence, the more that we can improve. If we can clearly articulate these concepts to ourselves, we can increase our drive to do so. The brain works in fascinating ways. Once we truly understand that the people that we will become is just as dependent on our ability to work hard and improve as it is any inherent ability, we can do so much more.

#### Session 2: Getting Better at Difficult Things

This is a topic with significant relevance to becoming a competent software engineer. The principles described in this session provide hope, inspiration, and direction in navigating the learning process of programming. For a novice, difficult things can often seem impossible. The sheer number and variety of sub skills required to become competent in something complex and dynamic can make it seem impenetrable. It can be difficult to know where to start. Learning difficult things is accomplished through dedicated, disciplined, and protracted exposure. The humorous example of sexing chickens is valuable. Sexing chickens is surprisingly complicated. I spent a year running my own chicken farm, so this example really hit home. Chicks are seemingly identical balls of fuzz, with small colorations and markings being the only noticeable difference. To the uninitiated, there is zero indication of their gender. Yet somehow, there are people with the ability to instantly know whether these small creatures are boys or girls with a small percentage of error. They aren't able to articulate what they are seeing, yet they know. The human mind is so complicated and full of potential. If we expose ourselves to a difficult skill, we pick up small bits of information that inform us all of the time. Sometimes, we may not even know how we are improving, yet we are. So get to work, keep at it, and over time the improvements will become obvious.

#### Session 3: Introvert vs. Extrovert

Human personalities are varied. There are so many different ways that people interact and thrive. In software engineering, working well with people is a large indicator of success. Being socially intelligent is a significant factor as to whether someone works well with people or struggles. A large part of social intelligence is an understanding of the spectrum between introversion and extroversion. It has long been inaccurately assumed that people are either introverts or extroverts. Now we have a much better understanding that it is incredibly rare for a person to be a pure introvert or pure extrovert. Most people fall somewhere in between. Developing an awareness of the needs of people involves understanding the needs of introverts and extroverts. Introverts require time alone with their thoughts to recharge their batteries. Extroverts need time with people, they thrive off of the rewards of positive social interactions. Developing a sense of awareness regarding where people fall on the spectrum can help us to have more successful working interactions. It is also important to understand where we fall on the spectrum. This awareness of who we are will help us to understand what it is that we need to do our best work. Providing ourselves with time alone, and/or ensuring that we get our necessary social time will allow us to function throughout work and home life much better.

#### Session 4: Strengths & Storytelling

The story we tell to potential employers carries a great deal of significance. It is an opportunity for us to connect, assure that we have a first impression that is positive and memorable, and highlight our attributes that exhibit our professional value.

My story is something that I must spend a significant amount of time crafting and honing. I have an unconventional background coming from a former career in agriculture. For many employers, this might give the impression that I may not be well suited for software development company culture. It is vital for my transition that I understand both how to illustrate how my experience provides me with a unique toolkit for my next career, and what my greatest strengths are and how they translate into value for a company.

There are many ways that my perspective is unique because of my experience. I have spent years doing the hard work to try and make the world a better place, often operating on the edge of traditional techniques and groundbreaking innovation. I have experimented and been humbled, but there has also been success. From what I understand about the software industry, these experiences are perfectly relevant. Software inhabits the space between tradition and innovation, and it takes hard work. In this way, my experiences have prepared me well.

My strengths are well suited to a software development company that is working to connect people in new ways. My sphere of value is where people are working together through difficult circumstances, and working hard to create or improve. I excel at making connections with people, and communicating productively. I live to learn and I feel most satisfied when I am pursuing the merits of an idea with a group of talented individuals.

#### Session 5: Debugging the Gender Gap

One of the greatest successes of the 20th century was the progress that humans made in breaking down the walls built by discrimination and lack of understanding. We live in a world where a woman almost became the president, and a black man did. Morgan Freeman argues adamantly that his race has never held him back in achieving his enormous level of success. We live in the most egalitarian and peaceful large society the world has ever known. These are points that must be remembered, because we have nothing without gratitude for progress made.

However, the job is not done, and likely never will be. It is important for us to also remember that there are still biases in society. Women must get through life constantly redefining people's assumptions about what they are capable of. In order to make the world a better place, it is important for us to be aware of the unconscious a fleeting assumptions that we make. We can never know what it is like to live the lives of others and what they deal with. In order to keep the doors of opportunity open for everyone, it is important to judge on merits and give the benefit of the doubt, rather than assume competency based on generalizations.

I will strive to be inclusive. I will seek diverse perspectives because that is very clearly the only way to get the fullest picture possible. I understand that people of all backgrounds surprise and impress me in new and fascinating ways. I admire my sister as much as anyone I know. She is 7 years younger than I am but I have always been very aware and amazed with the tenacity with which she works. She also has the ability to make close connections with people everywhere she goes. These characteristics have served her well. She has always been aware of the biases that society holds towards women. I think that she has used this as a sort of fuel. She has gracefully held a chip on her shoulder without being a victim. I believe that she worked hard to become as skilled as possible in order to shatter any bias based assumptions. While I appreciate that about her, I will aim to be the type of person who doesn't require the extra work from women to prove themselves just because of their gender.

### Community Participation

I have contributed to the Turing community in a variety of ways. On two separate occasions I have organized trips to the mountains and invited everyone in my cohort. I felt that it would be time for people to connect outside of class. I also am very aware of the importance of time in the outdoors for overall health and wellbeing. I knew for many of us it was a much needed dose of medicine. In addition, many people in the cohort are new to the Denver area and do not have vehicles. I figured it would be a nice opportunity for them to see the area and appreciate where they are spending 7 months of their lives. In addition to those two trips, I have spent a good deal of time working with others on projects to help them along. Before I began Turing, I spent a few months teaching myself to code, so I have had a small leg up on many of my classmates. I have been aware of this and have gone out of my way to offer my help. On the Headcount project, I met with another group on the weekend to work with them for an afternoon. There was also one occasion where I was invited to a networking event and I was able to bring one other person. I invited a member of my cohort. I am excited to pair with Mod 1 students to help them through difficult material once I have reached Mod 2. I enjoy helping people through material I have worked hard to understand.

-------------------------------------------------------------

## Final Review

Please leave blank for assessor.

### Outcome

PROMOTED
