# Lucy Fox - M4 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis
  During this module I had hoped to increase my comfort with JavaScript while also improving my framework skills in both React and Ember. While I do feel more comfortable with my JavaScript skills I feel like I can still continue to improve them quite a bit. I'm excited to continue working on personal projects in React as well as wrap up some Ember tutorials I've been working through.

## Rubric Scores

* **A: End-of-Module Assessment**: 4
* **B: Individual Work & Projects**: 3
* **C: Group Work & Projects**: 3
* **D: Professional Skills**: 3
* **E: Feedback & Community Participation**: 3

-----------------------

## A: End of Module Assessment - ThoughtBox

[Github](https://github.com/lucyfox4131/thoughtbox)
[Production Application](https://thoughtboxx.herokuapp.com/)

1. Satisfactory Progress

3: Developer completes iterations 1 through 5 with few bugs and no missing functionality. (In the real final assessment, this will involve completing one supporting feature.)
Note: This was the closest to feature complete project at the time of the eval - definitely between a 3 and a 4 here.

2. Ruby Syntax & Style

4: Developer is able to write Ruby demonstrating a broad/deep understanding of available language features. Application demonstrates great understanding of Object-Oriented modeling. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code is doing.

3. Rails Style & API

4: Developer is able to craft Rails features that follow the principles of MVC, push business logic down the stack, and skillfully utilizes ActiveRecord to model application state. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code is doing.

4. Javascript Syntax & Style

4: Developer uses elegant and idiomatic Javascript to accomplish common tasks. Demonstrates solid understanding of function passing and manipulation. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code is doing.

5. Testing

3: Developer writes tests that are effective validation of functionality, but don't drive the design. Developer uses integration tests, controller tests, and model tests where appropriate.

6. User Interface

4: The application is pleasant, logical, and easy to use

7. Workflow

4: The developer effectively uses Git branches and many small, atomic commits that document the evolution of their application.

## B: Individual Work & Projects

#### Idea Box

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/lucyfox4131/idea_box)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/curriculum/blob/master/source/projects/revenge_of_idea_box.markdown)

All the ideas. A place to store those ideas that you have throughout the day. Ideas have a
title, and a body. Their default quality is Swill, but up vote them and they'll become
Plausible or even Genius. Down vote ideas to reduce their quality, and those that are truly
terrible can be deleted. Idea box is a project utilizing a basic Rails API on the backend and
a single page front end exclusively using jQuery, AJAX, and some plain old JavaScript. This
was our first project using JavaScript exclusively for the front end of an application.

Evaluator Scores
Total: 146/150

Spec Adherence - 10 points: The application consists of one page with all of the major functionality being provided by jQuery. There is no use of format.js in Rails. There is no use of unobstrusive JavaScript. There are no front-end frameworks used in the application. No approach was taken that is counter to the spirit of the project and its learning goals. There are no features missing from above that make the application feel incomplete or hard to use.

User Interface - 4 points - The application has many strong pages/interactions, but a few holes in lesser-used functionality.

Testing - 10 points - Project has a running test suite that exercises the application at multiple levels including JavaScript tests.

Ruby and Rails Quality - 9 points - Developer is able to craft Rails features that make smart use of Ruby, follow the principles of MVC, and push business logic down where it belongs. There zero instances where an instructor would recommend taking a different approach. Developer writes code that is exceptionally clear and well-factored. Application is expertly divided into logical components each with a clear, single responsibility.

JavaScript Style - 8 points - Application is thoughtfully put together with some duplication and no major bugs. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code is doing.

Workflow - 10 points - The developer effectively uses Git branches and many small, atomic commits that document the evolution of their application.

## C: Group Work & Projects

#### Game Time

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/lucyfox4131/color-wars)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/lesson_plans/blob/master/ruby_04-apis_and_scalability/gametime_project.markdown)

For Game Time Erin and I decided to tackle a modified version of the lines game. Our number one takeaway was that this game was a lot harder to build then we expected. I think the both of us feel like there is still a lot of room for improvement in this game, but ultimately we were really excited about the risks that we took and the final result we were able to produce. UI/UX wise it is one of the projects I am more proud of as it is simple and beautiful.

Our final score was 130/150. We lost points due to small bugs and some lacking test coverage.
[All Scores & Submissions](https://github.com/turingschool/ruby-submissions/tree/master/1603/module_4_assignments/gametime/erin-lucy)

#### Scale Up

* [GitHub URL](https://3.basecamp.com/3278136/buckets/495148/documents/219785780)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/lesson_plans/blob/master/ruby_04-apis_and_scalability/week-4-kickoff.markdown)

My scale up was a mix of Denver Start Up Week and JavaScript linting, both of which were great. For the linting I began the work of creating a custom JavaScript style guide based off of the style guide rules set forth by Airbnb. This was a lot more enjoyable then I initially anticipated. I learned a ton about JavaScript just by reading through the guide and all the associated links. In my spare time I think I will work on completing the issue and building a custom lint file to have within my own JavaScript projects for fun and practice! DSW was pretty incredible as well. My favorite sessions were one on "Monoliths to Microservices" as well as one on general security practices for Start ups.

Week 4: 150/150 points, full points given for research spike documented for week 4
Week 5: 150/150 - "Good work this week! Way to go on the deliverable, and thank you for following up with Lia and getting her feedback on how to get the most out of Start Up Week.

Good point on the remote standups - last module we had someone take notes in every stand up to send out in the channel but I dropped the ball on doing that this time around!"


## D: Professional Skills
Mod 4 Professional Skills sessions && Gear Up.

### Gear Up

* [Getting Better at Difficult Things](https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/getting_better_at_difficult_things.markdown)

Takeaways: One of the best rules I took away from Sierra's film was that problems you tackle should always be small. I appreciated her rule of allotting a certain amount of time to be great at something and if it takes longer, the problem is to small. I knew already, but have certainly focused on keeping track of my emotional state while trying to learn. As a group we decided that it's extremely important to keep track of it, and as we move through our future learning.

* [There is an "I" in "Team"](https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/there_is_an_i_in_team.markdown)

Takeaways: If you take any quality close to empathy and subtract boundaries, you distort that quality or detract from it in a way that disrupts the meaning. We discussed and decided to work on creating successful team scenarios by interjecting feelings and perceptions about the direction the team is going regardless of skill levels and experience. Open communication is necessary while having boundaries set forward by the DTR. In any project here on out, the main takeaway for our group was to be willing to approach conflict in healthy ways.

* [The Gender Gap In Technology](https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/code_debugging_the_gender_gap.markdown)

Takeaways: One of the more interesting things I heard came from the discussion of another group. They said as a group of mostly men they felt it was necessary to step up and monitor your own actions instead of asking people to let you know when you've stepped over the line. It's not someone else's job to monitor your own behavior. I think this is important to keep in mind and something I'll ask for as a female dev in the future.

### Professional Development Workshops
#### Telling Your Story

* [Workshop URL](https://github.com/turingschool/professional_skills#telling-your-story)
* Deliverables below

My takeaways from this session were to find a way to pull in your career and experiences from before Turing in order to craft a story of your accomplishments. Make your story more accessible with clarity and direction.

#### Negotiations

* [Workshop URL](https://github.com/turingschool/professional_skills/blob/master/negotiations.md)
* Deliverables below

Always negotiate! My takeaway from this session was that it's important to always negotiate, even if you know it won't make a difference. I also learned more about what types of things to ask for within a negotiation, and how to phrase a lot of the important dialogue surrounding negotiations.

#### ("Professional Development")
-> I can't remember the name of the first session Lia did with us. I think it was on cold outreach/telling your story. The schedule just says "Professional Development".

* [Workshop URL](https://github.com/turingschool/professional_skills#telling-your-story)
* Deliverables below

I believe this session was on cold outreach. If so, then the takeaway for me was that when doing cold outreach it's extremely important to find something to connect with that person on. Don't just say "Hey I code too" and instead find something personal. You're much more likely to get a response that way.

#### Deliverables For Professional Development Sessions
* [LinkedIn summary](https://www.linkedin.com/in/lucyreneefox)
* [Resume && Turing Portfolio](https://www.turing.io/alumni/lucy-fox)

## E: Feedback and Community Participation

### Giving Feedback

To Erin - I really appreciated having the chance to work with Erin for game time. Erin has a persistent attitude to overcome all challenges that present in projects which makes her a motivating team member. She does her best to think and explore ideas outside of the box. I did notice on occasion when ideas sometimes led us down rabbit holes Erin tried her best to make them work. On occasion, she may benefit from moving on to a new idea a little sooner. Overall, I'm happy with our final product and I look forward to seeing what Erin is able to accomplish as a developer.

### Being a Community Member

From Erin - Lucy was a great GameTime partner. She is methodical and a good problem solver. My one piece of advice is that sometimes she can be very adamant about what the right course of action is and sometimes she could give others more space to explain an alternate idea. Overall I really appreciate how reliable and sharp Lucy is and I know that she will excel wherever her career takes her.

### Playing a Part

While I no longer lead Hopper posse this module I helped a lot of students individually as much as I could. I met with a mod 3 student every Wednesday morning of the module and have helped several mod 3 students with questions they've had on their personal projects. I've also made an effort to follow up with Mod 1 students I've noticed struggling with projects.
In a larger scope, I've attended every day this module with the exception of the Monday-Thursday of Denver StartUp Week which were excused absences. I participate fully in every Friday, and make an effort to contribute discussions. I also regularly attend the Joan Clarke mornings in an effort to get to know students in Mod 1/2 in both programs.

------------------

## Final Review

### Notes

### Outcome

PROMOTED

## Rubric Scores

* **A: End-of-Module Assessment**: 4
* **B: Individual Work & Projects**: 3
* **C: Group Work & Projects**: 3
* **D: Professional Skills**: 3
* **E: Feedback & Community Participation**: 3
