# Lucy Fox - M3 Portfolio
## Individual

### Areas of Emphasis
  If the ultimate goal of module 3 is to output hirable developers my goal coming into this module was to feel confident that I fit within that description. I hoped to feel confident completing projects efficiently and at the quality and standard that would be expected of a beginning developer.

### End of Module Assessment

Student: Lucy Fox

Notes:

* Somethin funky is happening in your API get index test
* Naming of request spec file could be better
* All-in-all, your internal API testing is thorough
* Store service test looks good
* Store Service is very well divided up. Good work breaking out your hashes to methods.
* Could move format and APIkey to initialize.
* Could move `["results"].first` to the service instead of the model. It has to do with the structure of the data coming back from the API. Not super important.
* Should create a collection of store objects in SearchStores
* Nice work separating out Search model from Store model. Has some advantages.
* Great internal API. Has it's own controller. Very easy to read.
* All tests passing!



## Evaluation Criteria - Final Assessment

Subjective evaluation will be made on your work/process according to the following criteria:

### 1. Ruby Style

* 4: Developer writes code that is exceptionally clear and well-factored
* **3: Developer solves problems with a balance between conciseness and clarity and often extracts logical components**
* 2: Developer writes effective code, but does not breakout logical components
* 1: Developer writes code with unnecessary variables, operations, or steps which do not increase clarity
* 0: Developer writes code that is difficult to understand

### 2. Rails Syntax & API

* **4: Developer is able to craft Rails features that follow the principles of MVC, push business logic down the stack, and skillfully utilizes ActiveRecord to model application state. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code is doing.**
* 3: Developer generally writes clean Rails features that make smart use of Ruby, with some struggles in pushing logic down the stack. The application displays good judgement in modeling the problem as data. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code is doing.
* 2: Developer struggles with some concepts of MVC.  Developer is not confident in what every line of the code is doing or cannot speak to the choices made.
* 1: Developer struggles with MVC and pushing logic down the stack
* 0: Developer shows little or no understanding of how to craft Rails applications

### 3. Testing

* **4: Developer excels at taking small steps and using the tests for both design and verification. All new lines of code are tested.**
* 3: Developer writes tests that are effective validation of functionality. Most new lines of code are tested.
* 2: Developer writes tests. Most new lines of code are tested but they aren't effective at testing for functionality and value.
* 1: Developer is able to write tests, but most new lines of code are not tested.
* 0: Developer does not use tests.

### 4. Progression/Completion

* **4: Developer is able to implement solutions at the speed of a developer.**
* 3: Developer is able to implement solutions at the speed of a junior developer.
* 2: Developer is able to implement solutions at the speed of an apprentice.
* 1: Developer struggles to implement solutions at the speed of an apprentice.
* 0: Developer is not able to implement basic functionality.

### 5. Workflow

* **4: Developer commits every 15 minutes**
* 3: Developer commits almost every 15 minutes
* 2: Developer does not commit regularly
* 1: Developer has poor git workflow and does not commit regularly
* 0: Developer committed once


### Work

  Projects completed during Module 3

### Team Projects

#### The Pivot

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/lucyfox4131/the_pivot)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/lesson_plans/blob/master/ruby_03-professional_rails_applications/the_pivot.md)

###### Description

Refugeerestart is a multi-tenant application for use by charities that seek donations to help arriving refugees. The application allows users to search for families using various criteria and pledge donations by adding items to a cart. It is also configured to allow users to contribute to micro-loans requested by charities on behalf of refugees.

###### Comments & Scores

Assessed by: Josh

Repo: https://github.com/lucyfox4131/the_pivot

Notes:

Solid project with clear effort put into all aspects of the project
Good effort put into refactoring controllers minimizing the length of actions
Took some risks on one undelivered AJAX feature and a static map using leaflet
One permissions hole
Amazing tests
Feature Delivery

1. Completion

4: Team completed all the user stories and requirements set by the client in timely manner.
**3: Team completed all the user stories and requirements set by the client.**
2: Team completed most of the user stories and requirements set by the client.
1: Team completed the user stories and requirements partially.

2. Organization

**4: Team used a project management tool and updated their progress in real-time.**
3: Team used a project management tool to keep their project organized.
2: Team used a project management tool but didn't update the progress frequently.
1: Team failed to use a project management tool to track its progress.

3. Git Workflow

4: Team always pull requests to introduce code to their project in a professional manner. Most commits are squashed.
**3: Team always used pull requests to introduce code to their project.**
2: Team often used pull requests to introduce code to their project.
1: Team did not use pull requests to introduce code to their project.
0: Team did not use git or GitHub.
Technical Quality

1. Test-Driven Development

**4: Project shows exceptional use of testing at different layers (above 95% coverage).**
3: Project shows adequate testing (90% - 95% coverage).
2: Project shows gaps in test usage/coverage/design (85 - 90% coverage).
1: Project lacks sufficient testing (under 85% coverage).

2. Code Quality

4: Project demonstrates exceptionally well factored code.
**3: Project demonstrates solid code quality and MVC principles.**
2: Project demonstrates some gaps in code quality and/or application of MVC principles.
1: Project demonstrates poor factoring and/or understanding of MVC.
Product Experience

1. User Experience

4: Project exhibits a production-ready and polished UX.
**3: Project exhibits a production-ready user experience.**
2: Project exhibits some gaps in the UX.
1: Project exhibits inattention to the user experience.
Risk taking and creativity

1. Extensions

4: Developers pushed themselves and their team by taking risks which is demonstrated by a delivered feature.
**3: Developers pushed themselves and their team by taking risks which is demonstrated by an almost delivered feature.**
2: Developers attempted to implement extensions using technologies not covered in class but it did not result in a delivered feature.
1: Developers but did not build any extensions.


#### Rails Engine

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/lucyfox4131/sales_engine.git)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/lesson_plans/blob/master/ruby_03-professional_rails_applications/rails_engine.md)

###### Description

  This project was a paired project over 3 days to build an API using the rails 5 --api and active record. The api is versioned, and available routes can be found in the projects README.

  Student: Nick, Lucy Evaluator: Josh

  Notes:

  Feature Delivery

  1. Completion

  4: Project completes all base requirements according to the spec harness.
  **3: Project completes most requirements but fails 5 or fewer spec harness tests.**
  2: Project completes most requirements but fails 10 to 6 spec harness tests.
  1: Project fails more than 10 spec harness tests.

  Technical Quality

  1. Test-Driven Development

  4: Project demonstrates high test coverage (>90%) and tests at the controller and unit levels.
  **3: Project demonstrates high test coverage (>80%) and tests at the controller and unit levels.**
  2: Project demonstrates high test coverage (>70%) but does not adequately balance controller and unit tests.
  1: Project does not have 70% test coverage.

  2. Code Quality

  4: Project demonstrates exceptionally well factored code.
  **3: Project demonstrates solid code quality and MVC principles.**
   2: Project demonstrates some gaps in code quality and/or application of MVC principles.
  1: Project demonstrates poor factoring and/or understanding of MVC.

  3. API Design

  **4: Project exemplifies API design idioms, with consistent and coherent response structures, serializers to format JSON data, and effective request format handling.**
  3: Project uses strong and consistent data formats throughout, while relying mostly on standard Rails JSON features.
  2: Project has inconsistencies or gaps in how its JSON data is organized or formatted.
  1: Project's API is not fully functional or has significant confusion around request formats.

  4. Queries

  **4: Project makes great use of ActiveRecord relationships and queries, including some advanced query functionality such as joins and includes.**
  3: Project makes good use of ActiveRecord, but drops to ruby enumerables for some query methods.
  2: Project has some gaps in ActiveRecord usage, including numerous business methods that rely on ruby enumerables to find the appropriate data.
  1: Project struggles to establish a coherent ActiveRecords schema, including missing relationships or dysfunctional queries.

#### Self Directed Project

[Github URL](https://github.com/lucyfox4131/beer_explorer)
[Production URL](https://beerexplorer.herokuapp.com/)
[Original Spec](https://github.com/turingschool/lesson_plans/blob/master/ruby_03-professional_rails_applications/self_directed_project.md)

###### Description

An app that consumes the external BreweryDB API in order to generate recommendations based on beers users have liked.

Assessor: Nate

Notes:

Max out that VCR usage
Bootstrap usage
Don't be afraid to make requests in your tests to get some data to test against
Great test coverage
Find out how to test sidekiq, or just write a gem to do it and give it to the world
Nice service Organization

1. Completion

4: Developer completed all the user stories and requirements set by the client in timely manner.
**3: Developer completed all the user stories and requirements set by the client.**
2: Developer completed most of the user stories and requirements set by the client.
1: Developer completed the user stories and requirements partially.

2. Organization

**4: Developer used a project management tool and updated their progress in real-time.**
3: Developer used a project management tool to keep their project organized.
2: Developer used a project management tool but didn't update the progress frequently.
1: Developer failed to use a project management tool to track its progress.

Technical Quality

1. Test-Driven Development

**4: Project shows exceptional use of testing at different layers (above 95% coverage).**
3: Project shows adequate testing (90% - 95% coverage).
2: Project shows gaps in test usage/coverage/design (85 - 90% coverage).
1: Project lacks sufficient testing (under 85% coverage).

2. Code Quality

**4: Project demonstrates exceptionally well factored code.**
3: Project demonstrates solid code quality and MVC principles.
2: Project demonstrates some gaps in code quality and/or application of MVC principles.
1: Project demonstrates poor factoring and/or understanding of MVC.

Product Experience

1. User Experience

4: Project exhibits a production-ready and polished UX.
**3: Project exhibits a production-ready user experience.**
2: Project exhibits some gaps in the UX.
1: Project exhibits inattention to the user experience.
2. Performance

**4: Project pages load on average under 300 milliseconds.**
3: Project pages load on average under 400 milliseconds.
2: Project pages load on average under 500 milliseconds.
1: Project pages load on average over 500 milliseconds.

## Community


### Giving Feedback

Feedback For Nick --> It was a pleasure to work with Nick during Rails Engine. I appreciated the extra time he took to go above and beyond, especially the last night of our project when he spent extra time trying to fix spec harness failures we had and reduce them to as few as possible. This was certainly a challenging project and Nick was able to work efficiently in spite of the stress and short timeline that came with the project. While working with Nick I did notice that he spent a lot of time guessing for solutions on complex active record queries. He could work on improving his googling/search skills to try and make decisions based on documentation and less guess and check. Nick is a very strong developer and I believe that his skills will serve him well on the job.  I look forward to seeing his work in the future.

Feedback For Anna --> I feel lucky to have had the chance to work with Anna during the Pivot. She has a methodical and structured approach to problem solving that will serve her well in any work environment. I never saw her become frustrated even when dealing with difficult challenges. She takes the time to fully explore and research before diving into a problem. She was on occasion reluctant to pair during the project, I think a little more willingness to pair could help others around her benefit from her knowledge and problem solving approach. Overall, Anna is already a successful developer and I look forward to seeing where her skills will take her.

### Being a Community Member

Feedback from Nick: Rails Engine certainly was a difficult project, but I’m glad that I had the opportunity to work with Lucy on it.  She is an incredibly strong programmer and stays extremely dedicated.  Her focus and drive is admirable.  She seems unfazed through difficult struggles, and gets through complex problems (doing a great job on the complicated AR queries).  It was apparent that she has a preference for working independently, which can be difficult when problems arise and we’re not together to sort them out.  However, she is very communicative and helpful to work with during the times we were together.  She will undoubtedly maintain her strong work ethic throughout her career and produce great work!

### Playing a Part/Posse Time

  I'm a hopper posse lead and participate in student support through hopper posse in student led Friday sessions as well as each morning in classroom C from 8:30 to 9. I also regularly attend and participate in Joan Clarke. I appreciated as a hopper posse lead for the second mod in a row having a chance to work with Mod 2 students that I had previously worked with while they were in mod 1. It's exciting getting to see how much progress can be made in just a few weeks.

### Self Assessment Scores
A: End-of-Module Assessment: 4
B: Individual Work & Projects: 3
C: Group Work & Projects: 3
D: Community Participation: 4
E: Peer & Instructor Feedback: 3

### Notes

( Leave blanks for reviewers )

### Outcome

Promoted

A: End-of-Module Assessment: 4
B: Individual Work & Projects: 3
C: Group Work & Projects: 3
D: Community Participation: 4
E: Peer & Instructor Feedback: 3
