# Pat Wey - (M1/M2/M3/M4) Portfolio

## Individual

### Areas of Emphasis

My mission as a Turing student is to embrace discomfort in social situations, invest my time and effort into the Turing community, welcome challenges, confidently voice my opinions, and relentlessly seek constructive, actionable feedback.

### End of Module Assessment
(intro, see below)
Assessed by Josh Cheek on 28 September 2015
Challenge 2: Reading Game Data

Feedback:
* "Good understanding of what is going on and what is going to happen"
* "Nice refactoring in the tests"
* "Good use of `:map`, and `:group_by`"
* "Good approach to describing behaviour and turning them into tests"
* "Nice use of command+d to highlight and replace"
* "Great use of pry / tests"
* Good explanation and descriptions

Evaluation:
- Ruby Syntax & API: 4
- Ruby Style: 4
- Blocks & Enumerations: 3.5
- Testing: 4
- Workflow: 3
- Collaboration: 3.5

### Attendance

I missed the field day on Friday, September 18th. My partner Jason and I decided that we'd prefer to spend that day working, and take Sunday off that weekend instead. Jason has kids, and we prioritized him spending more time with his kids during the weekend over us attending field day.

### Work

(Intro)

### Type Test
  Github: LINK

  A side project where I create a typing program for the command line.

  (anything else?)

### Night Writer
  Github: https://github.com/patwey/night_writer
  Original Assignment: LINK

  A project where I built an application to translate between Braille and English.

  (evaluation comments)

  - Overall: 3
  - Fundamental Ruby & Style: 3
  - Test-Driven Developent: 2
  - Components: 3

### Binary Search Tree
  Github: https://github.com/patwey/binary-search-tree
  Original Assignment: LINK

  A project where I constructed a binary search tree.

  (evaluation comments)

  - Functional Expectations: 4
  - Test-Driven Development: 4
  - Encapsulation / Breaking Logic into Components: 3
  - Fundamental Ruby & Style: 3
  - Enumerable & Collections: 3


#### Linked List
  Github: https://github.com/patwey/linked-list
  Original Assignment: LINK

  A project where I built a linked list.

  (evaluation comments)

  - Functional Expectations: 4
  - Test-Driven Development: 4
  - Encapsulation / Breaking Logic into Components: 3
  - Fundamental Ruby & Style: 3
  - Looping or Recursion: 3


#### Sorting Suite
  Github: https://github.com/patwey/sorting-suite
  Original Assignment: LINK

  A project where I implemented 3 sorting algorithms: bubble sort, insertion sort, and merge sort.

  (evaluation comments)

  - Functional Expectations: 3
  - Testing: 3
  - Ruby Style: 3
  - Organization: 3

## Team

### Projects

(Intro)

#### HTTPYeahYouKnowMe
  Github: LINK
  Original Assignment: LINK

  A group project where the dream team, Jason Pilz and I, are reunited to build a web server to serve my Night Writer.

  (evaluation comments)

  (evaluation scores)

  (feedback to me)

#### Headcount
  Github: https://github.com/jasonpilz/Headcount
  Original Assignment: LINK

  A group project where Jason Pilz and I built an application to parse and analyze a dataset of Colorado schools.

  (evaluation comments)

  - Functionality: 4
  - Test-Driven Development: 3.5
  - Fundamental Ruby & Style: 3
  - Encapsulation: 3

  (feedback to me)

## Community

### Giving Feedback

"Working with Jason for two projects has been a pleasure.  He is easy-going and flexible, independent of the fact that he has a family who wants to spend time with him!  I'm impressed with his ability to take charge of the big picture items - he kept both me and the project on track from day one, carefully considering the implications of our design decisions. Furthermore, his ability to stay calm in the face of adversity (i.e. the spec harness) bolstered me when my confidence wavered.

Despite his modesty, I've gathered that Jason has a great command of the concepts and processes we were taught in Module 1. He worked tirelessly on our project, and "hey I pushed some new commits" became a slack message I was used to waking up to. Finally, I've noticed that Jason regularly feeds his healthy curiosity. Almost daily, he'd share something with me that he discovered digging around in the docs or online.""

### Being a Community Member

Feedback:
 "You showed me your mission statement at the beginning of the module.  When Jeff first explained the mission statement and said to write one over the weekend, I had no what it should include without sounding ‘hokey’.  Thanks very much for guiding me and making the mission statement feel less intimidating.  You are such a great person and I’m very impressed with both your technical skills and your interpersonal skills." - Nicole

TODO: Get feedback from Ryan, Torie, Jason

### Playing a Part

I organized a few social events on the weekend, most notably: a hike up the flatirons in Boulder and a group that checked out Oktoberfest(and decided it was too crowded).

Around school, I've tried to pick up stray trash/water cups whenever possible, and I've even started the dishwasher a few times!  I've also been diligent about closing up classroom A and turning off the lights whenever I've worked late.

## Review

### Notes

### Outcome
