# Cole Hall - M2 Portfolio

## Individual

### Areas of Emphasis
Coming into this module I felt a tremendous sense of pride for finally have made it out of module one.  I knew I had a lot to learn over break week.  Although I had a handle on Ruby, I had no clue how the web worked nor how to make a web page.  I watched a lot of YouTube videos about the request/response cycle and did the break week assignment of building a personal website.  I struggled through building a page, adding the HTML and CSS, buying my own domain and having it load the page I built using GitHub pages.  Over the break I also worked on Web Guesser and Task Manager.  However those applications didn't make much sense to me until I was back at Turing learning all that sweet module two material.  

### End of Module Assessment
1.  Thinking:
Score 4.  Developer independently breaks complex processes into logical sequences of small steps and validates progress along the way
2.  Ruby Syntax & Standard Library:
Score 3.  Developer is able to comfortably implement solutions in Ruby
3. Rails Syntax & API:
Score 3.  Developer is able to utilize Rails methods and structures, but needs some direct guidance.  
4. Rails Style:
Score 3. Developer generally writes clean Rails features that make smart use of Ruby, with some struggles in pushing logic down the stack
5. Testing:
​Score 3. Developer uses tests at multiple layers of abstraction to drive development
6. Collaboration
​Score 4.  Developer actively seeks collaboration both before implementing, while in motion, and when stuck

### Attendance
I did not miss any days this module.

### Team Projects
#### Traffic Spy
*[GitHub repository] (git@github.com:rossedfort/src_traffic_spy.git)
*[Original Assignment] (https://github.com/turingschool-examples/traffic_spy)

In this one week project I implemented a sinatra based web application that could parse and display data about web traffic coming into a website. It was evaluated by Andrew with the following results:

instructor_evaluation:
notes: Some views are instantiating new objects within them. Need to pull out logic down the stack. Only on one page - so score is still 3 but should be aware it's not good practice. Scores for views and business logic are threes, but were close to twos because of the business logic in views.

rubric:
Functional Expectations: 3
TestDriven Development: 3
Encapsulation / Components: 3
Fundamental Ruby & Style: 3
Sinatra / Web and Business Logic: 3
View Layer: 3

#### Little Shop Of Orders
*[GitHub repository] (https://github.com/toriejw/global-pursuit)
*[Original Assignment] (https://github.com/turingschool/curriculum/blob/master/source/projects/little_shop.markdown)

In this two week project my team and I built an e-commerce website using rails and shipped to Heroku.  It was
evaluated by Andrew with the following results:

1.  Feature Completeness:
Score 3.  All features defined in the assignment are correctly implemented
2.  Views:
Score 3.  Views make use of layout(s), partials and helpers, but some logic leaks through
3. Controllers:
Score 4.  Controllers show significant effort to push logic down the stack.  
4. Models:
Score 4. Models show excellent organization, refactoring, and appropriate use of Rails features
5. Testing:
​Score 3.5 . I'm [Andrew] leaning towards a 4, but missed some small basic feature coverage
6. Usability
​Score 3.  Project is highly usable, but needs more polish before it'd be customer-ready
7. Workflow:
Score 3.  Good use of branches, pull requests, and a project-management tool.

### Feedback to Me

#### From Torie Joy Warren - Little Shop
You are a much better developer than you give yourself credit for. You have a knack for asking the right questions and looking in the right places when something goes wrong, which makes you a great debugger. Your sense of humour makes working with you really enjoyable - I would be happy to work with you in the future :)

#### From Aaron Careaga - Little Shop
Cole, you have a great ability to break down problems, ask the right questions, and talk through the logic when we were stuck on Global Pursuit. I really appreciate your positive attitude and willingness to build what was needed throughout our project. You  also helped me improve areas of weakness in my understanding of topics. I can’t wait to see where you go in your development career. Hope to work together again on future projects!

#### From Jan Koszewski (Mentor from Goldberg Posse)
I've seen Cole mature significantly both as a rubyist and developer since I started working with her four weeks ago.  She is tenacious about bettering herself; she takes extensive notes on all lessons and projects done in class, and we regularly revisit aspects of past assignments which she might not have fully completed or understood.  In terms of her ruby development, she has made distinct gains in her understanding of ruby's object graph (esp. in the context of activerecord relations) and its method syntax.  Four weeks ago when we were working through attribute assignment on an active record class via a hash, we had to work through specifically what that meant syntatically; this past week we worked with multiple form and link helpers that jumped between taking arrays and hashes as arguments and she showed no hesitation in making those context switches (and/or immediately grokking what I meant by 'hash syntax').  In terms of her progress as a developer, she is one of the best students I work with when it comes to consistently using tests and TDD to drive the design of her work.  She also has a great knack for talking herself through the call stack of any class or app; most recently when pairing with her I mistakenly suggested that create an instance variable in a 'delete' action to support the generation of a form, but she correctly reasoned through the call that the variable should instead be created in the index action, and led us to correcting my error. She shows an incredible, consistent respect for process as a student, and I believe that that respect is building in a lot of good instincts in her as a developer and general problem-solver.  In sum, I believe that Cole has shown marked progress as a rubyist and developer, and I would strongly recommend for her for module advancement Turing as a student.

## Community

#### Feedback from Matt Ewell
Cole is a Turing gem. She always has a smile on her face even when things aren't going well. We've paired a few times, both on assignments and Exercisms, and she was always trying to strengthen her skills. In such a challenging place on many different levels, I'm grateful that I can always count on her to brighten my mood and empathize with whatever is going on. She is a strong asset to the community.

### Playing a Part
*I brought burritos for breakfast on Friday this module.  I made a point to get no-egg no-cheese burritos for folks with dietary issues.
*I went to the LGBTuring event following field day and got to know Emily and her partner
*I attend the Joan Clarke Society meetings and have been working with Kassia at 1000 Designs to make a teeshirt for the group
*I Wrote a technical blog post about refactoring that I will submit with Friday's feedback form




### Notes: 

* Has come a long way and is a stronger developer than she gives herself credit for.
* Has great questions in class and should keep that up. 
* A little nervous about Mod 3. 
* Try to impliment the same peice of functionality in a different way.
* Remember you are a good developer and assert yourself into your groups. Have confidence and own it. 

