# Cole Hall - M1 Portfolio

## Personal Technical Accomplishments:

I tried to solve the Hamming Exercism over the intermission week and failed.  The Exercism made me super frustrated and I was told by another student I should just quit Turing.

A week later, I solved it.  I wrote a working solution and made all the tests pass using the .zip and .count methods.  It was so freaking satisfying to have conquered it on my own and to slay the beast that had previously bested me.

I had similar experiences of feeling pride, accomplishment, and confidence with the JungleBeat, Mastermind, Chisel, and Enigma projects.

### Your Mission

Mission Statement: I’m here at Turing because learn a skill that will allow me to both make a living and make a life.  I don’t want to continue to work for employers who squeeze every last bit bit of sweat out of me.  I want my work to be valuable because it is of high quality.  I want my work to be valuable because it could only have been created by me.  And when I’ve produced work that I’m proud of, I want to go home and raise a family that I’m proud of.  I want to be valued for quality not quantity.

Creating this mission statement helped me to stay focused during the module.  Learning to code is much more than projects and assessments.  Its the beginning of a career transition and one step on the path to fulfilling the mission.

### End of Module Assessment

Although Mike suggested that spending more than three hours preparing for the assessment would be over-kill, I spent the better part of Sunday afternoon getting myself ready.  I did not do well on the assessment last time around.  It was partly because of nerves and partly because my skills were a bit below where they should have been.  This time I was determined to anticipate every possible scrabble-related challenge.  When I sat down with Jeff, he looked through my code and said "there's nothing left for me to throw at you, you've done it all."  He wrote two tests to add functionality to my linked list.  I did them in a snap and had to stand my ground and write the methods in a way that I was comfortable with.  My tests passed and I passed the assessment.

Scores:
3: Developer is able to comfortably implement solutions in Ruby
3: Developer writes code that is easy to follow
3: Developer demonstrates understanding of blocks and can effectively use enumerable methods
3: Developer uses tests to guide development in small chunks
3: Developer demonstrates comfort with their tools and makes some use of keyboard shortcuts
3: Developer lays out their thinking before attacking a problem and integrates feedback through the process


### Attendance

I took the morning of 8/28 off to get some medical testing done.  Although I was not present at Turing, I was working on enumerables in the waiting room and while draped in a gown inside the exam room

### Work

I have had some pretty major personal/technical accomplishments this module.

I completed the Hamming Exercism during the first week.  I had a failed attempt at solving it over the intermission week.  I got so frustrated with it that I cried.  A fellow student told me I should just quit Turing.  I felt so completely defeated and deflated.

A week later, I solved it.  I wrote a working solution and made all the tests pass using the .zip and .count methods.  It was so freaking satisfying to have conquered it on my own and to slay the beast that had previously bested me.

I had similar experiences of feeling pride, accomplishment and confidence with the Chisel, JungleBeat, and Enigma projects.


#### Mastermind

* GitHub URL: https://github.com/NicoleHall/Mastermind

description: https://github.com/turingschool/curriculum/blob/master/source/projects/mastermind.markdown

Evaluation Comments: none

Scores:
Fundamental Ruby and Style - 3
Enumerable & Collections - 3
REPL Interface and Game Functionality - 2
Breaking Logic into Components - 4

#### Jungle Beat

* GitHub URL: https://github.com/NicoleHall/Jungle-Beat

description:
https://github.com/turingschool/curriculum/blob/master/source/projects/jungle_beat.markdown

Evaluation Comments: none

Scores:
Functional Expectations 3
Test-Driven Development 3
Encapsulation/Breaking Logic into Components 3
Fundamental Ruby and Style 3
Looping or Recursion 3

#### Chisel

* GitHub URL: http://github.com/nicolehall/chisel

description: https://github.com/turingschool/curriculum/blob/master/source/projects/chisel.markdown

Evaluation Comments:
23 tests
File IO stuff should be in a separate class
Would like to have seen more edge case testing for unit tests
Some opportunities for refactoring

Scores:
Fundamental Ruby and Style: 3
Test Driven Development: 3
Functionality: 3
Breaking Logic into Components: 3

## Team

### Projects

Intro:  Last time I attempted to do Enigma, my teammate 'fired' me from the project.  He proceeded to do the whole thing alone and never got a working solution.  I felt I could have contributed, but my previous partner felt differently.  I basically had the worst possible experience with the project last module.  This module, I had the best possible experience.  I worked with Amber Crawford who is delight of a person and the best programmer in 1508 (in my opinion.)  We worked well together.  Our collaboration led to working solutions to encrypt, decrypt and crack.  When Amber is unsure about a method, she hesitates to run the test and turns to me and whispers "do you think it will work?"  This cracked me up everytime!  I would calmly say "only one way to find out."

#### Enigma

* GitHub URL:  https://github.com/amcrawford/enigma
* Original Assignment: https://github.com/turingschool/curriculum/blob/master/source/projects/enigma.markdown


evaluation comments:
Separate directories for encrypt, decrypt, and crack. Essentially 3 separate projects.
Some methods not covered in unit testing.
Some long methods and opportunities for refactoring and consolidating code into slightly
more readable portions.
Project was fully completed.
Good testing, covered edge cases in many places.
Cracking calculated the key, and was not a brute force approach.

Scores:
4: Application follows the complete spec and can crack a 100-character message in under 1 second
3:  Application shows some effort toward organization but still has 6 or fewer long methods (> 8 lines) and needs some refactoring.
3: Application uses tests to exercise core functionality, but has some gaps in coverage or leaves edge cases untested.
4: Breaking Logic into Components
4: Application shows clear effort towards logical separation of components.

Feedback to me from Amber Crawford:
"Nicole was great to work with on our enigma project! She was engaging and helpful and, even when we hit some serious roadblocks, never lost her cool. Her experience, having gone through the module before, was extremely helpful, too - she has made some awesome mentor connections which was key to overcoming some of our biggest hurdles.  I think that we paired together really well and hope to again in Mod. 2!"

Other Feedback:
Early in the module J’hun came to me and asked about expectations and how to best learn all the material.  I told him to make sure he’s reaching out to mentors because not everyone can listen to a 90 minute lecture and then go home a build a program alone.  Some people need a little extra help and that is perfectly okay.  J’hun thanked me for my ‘pro-tip' the day after our conversation.  He said he contacted a mentor from his posse and set up weekly pairing sessions.  I was surprised that he thanked me.  But when he did, it made me realize that I don’t always give myself enough credit.  My peers perceive me to be helpful and valuable.

On Friday 9/4/2015 I led the 1508 retro.  Josh Cheek, John Senft, and Sekhar Paladugu gave me feedback and said I did a good job of opening up the conversation and creating a safe atmosphere for sharing thoughts, feelings and feedback.

## Community

### Giving Feedback (feedback from me)
I submitted feedback to Pat Wey because he helped me with the mission statement.
I submitted feedback to Shannon Paige because she organized a fun LGBTuring event, she comforted me when I was sad, and she's helped me with code questions.
I submitted pairing feedback to Amber Crawford following the Enigma project.  

### Being a Community Member

I’ve participate in the Joan Clarke Society meetings every Tuesday morning at 8:00 AM.  I make an effort to listen more than I speak.  I am conscious to always respond with positivity and encouragement.  I do not let myself gossip about other students.  I hope that the behavior I demonstrate sets the behavioral norms for the Joan Clarke Society going forward.  Women can be competitive with each other.  But my vision for the group is that the participants forget to compete, forget to gossip and only encourage each other to be the best women/programmers/spouses/mothers we can be.  Also, I’m working with Daisha and Kassia to get some Joan Clarke Society tee-shirts designed and printed for the group.

### Playing a Part

Outside of the structured women’s group, I was happy to play a part in the Turing community by counseling crying module one students.  Since I went through the module twice I completely understood the frustration with the material and fear of failure and fear of repeating.  I assured my cohort-mates that if they keep at it, it will start to make sense and they will definitely improve.

During lightning talks, I always sit in the front row and listen intently and smile at the speakers.  I do this because I know public speaking is hard.  I want each speaker to look out and see a smiling, interested face so that they feel confident.

## Review

### Notes


### Outcome

## A: End-of-Module Assessment

A Turing student is able to demonstrate proficiency at programming in accordance
with the module's content and expectations.

* 3: Student achieved a "3" or better on each category of the assessment

## B: Individual Work & Projects

A Turing student works to maximize their skill growth and demonstrates
that skill across a variety of work.

* 3: Student demonstrates commitment and growth in their work through satisfactory
evaluations of each project or a clearly upward-sloping trend.

## C: Group Work & Projects

A Turing student contributes significantly to group projects, helps the team
develop their technical skills, and delivers a high-quality product.

* 3: Student fully participates in their group work to facilitate group harmony
while achieving consistently satisfactory results.

## D: Community Participation

A Turing student builds up the community around them by participating and
supporting other students, the larger Turing family, and persons outside our
walls who want to develop their own skills.

* 3: Student participates in required activities and does at least one or two
above-and-beyond supports of the community.

## E: Peer & Instructor Feedback

A Turing student accelerates the growth of those around
them by delivering specific, kind, and actionable feedback. They accelerate their
own growth by taking in and acting on the feedback of their peers and instructors.

* 3: Student consistently delivers meaningful feedback for peers and implements
strategies to improve themselves in response to feedback.
