# YOUR NAME - M2 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

I really wanted to improve my prototype method knowledge and ability to articulate my thought process. I also wanted to focus on processes in general. Taking my time to pseudo code and whiteboard proved immensely helpful this mod. I also wanted to reach out and find a mentor, and I did! 


## Self-Evaluation
_How do you feel you did in these areas this inning?_

* **A: Individual Work & Projects**: 3.5
* **B: Group Work & Projects**: 3.5
* **C: Professional Skills**: _3
* **D: Community Participation**: 3
* **E: Final Assessment**: _0 - 4_

-----------------------

## A: Individual Work & Projects

There was a lot of negativity surrounding the sorting suite and complete me but I thought that it was a really great way to tackle some extremely difficulty concepts that (from what I can tell) are integral to javascript. I appreciate group projects but I do think that struggling on something alone can be more benificial in some circumstances. During these projects I did a lot of whiteboarding and planning, which was a goal of mine for this mod. 

### Study Habits

I started to enjoy studying in my off-time and I found that I'm more self motivated. Now that we finished the react intro project, I've found that I have enough of a foundation that I can understand most of the forum discussions that take place. This makes exploring new topics more fruitful than it has been in the past.

### Sorting Suite
* **Outcome:** _Pass/Fail_

Sorting suite presented an opportunity to tackle an issue that would prepare us for interviews. I appreciated that especially after hearing about how often similar interview questions will come up. It was challenging to grasp concepts that were obviously very important to the project but we had not had a lot of experience with yet, like recursion. Working with other people was more optional and that led me to workout with one or two people who I enjoyed struggling on a question with. 

### Complete Me
* **Fundamental JS and Style:** _0 - 4_
* **Testing:** _0 - 4_
* **Encapsulation/Breaking Logic into Components:** _0 - 4_
* **Functional Expectations:** _0 - 4_
* **Code Sanitation:** _0 - 4_

Complete me was another project where we got to face a potential interview-type question and struggle with a concepts relevant to the industry, this time it was data-structures. It's nice to understand atleast some of these concepts at a basic level. It's nice to be able to picture what articles are talking about when they mention data-structures and algorithms.

## B: Group Work & Projects

I was fortunate enough to be paired with awesome partners who shared my desire to get isht done everday and work hard to make a quality project. I find that the energy I get from working with a partner who's as excited as I am by the challenge in front of us will benefits my work quality. The most challenging part of group work for me, remains my ability to be as good of a partner as I should be. I still have a hard time letting people drive. 

### GameTime
* **Partner:** Tony Robertson
* **Game:** Oven Escape
* **Functional Expectations:** 4
* **User Interface:** 4
* **Testing/Code Sanitation:** 3.5
* **JS Style:** 3.5
* **Workflow:** 3.5

I enjoyed building a usable game because it felt like I had completed something I could be proud of. It was also a good way to improve my understanding of OOP and how files can talk to eachother in javascript. These fundementals will clearly benefit me for the rest of my time at Turing and in work afterwards. I liked that we cycled back to this OOP skills in components during our React project. 

### Weathrly
* **Partner:** Jim
* **Spec Adherence:** 4
* **User Interface:** 4
* **HTML Style:** 4
* **CSS/Sass Style:** 3.5
* **JS/React Style:** 3
* **Testing:** 2
* **Workflow:** 4
* **Code Sanitation:** 2

Weathrly was a project I had been very excited about because we got to use React. I may have gotten too excited about it and my partner and I finished all the requirements in two days and then completely burned out when it came to testing. I learned a lot from this project and I know how I can improve my React writing from certain mistakes I made this time around. I really wish there had been some more information on how to test certain parts, or atleast an info session on what enzyme is and how it works. Looking forward to learning about this in mod 3. 

## C: Professional Skills

* **PD Sessions:**

PD sessions were great. Especially regarding the agile development method, which I wholeheartedly agree with. 

* **Gear Up Sessions:**
  * Empathy and Priveledge
  * Group Think
  * mod 4 lead

i learned that I disagree with some people on theories regarding group think but I appreciate their arguments. It will be nice to be able to carry differing opinion on such a relevant topic into my future workplace. 

## Community Participation

I felt that our mod really crushed it with communication and looking after eachother. In this sense I would like to continue my participation in community fostering events. 

## Final Assessment

I still would like to strengthen my ability to identify and process a plan to tackle prototype method problems. Besides that I'm feeling pretty strong and I will spend the time reviewing vocabulary so I can speak to my code in a coherent manner

# Outcome:
Promote to Mod 3
