# Ken Lee - M2 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis
I plan on just keeping up with learning all the new information that's going to come my way on top of all the Ruby I had last module. I want to also do better on focusing on purposeful learning because of the limited time I have as a husband and father of three. I know I have less time than most students at Turing and I want to be mindful of that and use that to help me focus on making sure I spend my time wisely. At the same time I will not sacrifice my family in the pursuit career happiness. I know there is a balance and my goal is to find that balance. With this balance I believe I will be able to learn all that is necessary to become a well rounded developer.

## Self-Assessment

| Section | Category | Score (optional) |
| --- | ----- | --- |
| A | **End-of-Module Assessment** | 3 |
| B | **Individual Work & Projects** | 3 |
| C | **Group Projects** | 3 |
| D | **Professional Development** | 4 |
| E | **Feedback & Community Participation** | 3 |

Takeaways, your experience: Thusfar, this has been a better module for me because
I have been a lot more balanced mentally. Though I admit, the last week and a half
has been hard mentally. Self doubt seems to always find a way in to my forethoughts.
But I have somehow in a good place now and ready to take on the final evaluation.
I've learned that rails is a pretty amazing piece of technology. I only wish I
had more reps. I always want more reps. I know I'll get that in working for a
living. All in all I had a great module.

-----------------------

## A: End-of-Module Assessment

| Category | Score (optional) |
| ----- | --- |
| **Pairing Assessment** | Pending |
| **Written Diagnostic** | X |

Takeaways, your experience: I know I have a lot to commit to memory still but I feel good about my ability to learn how to code.


## B: Individual Work & Projects

#### Blog Post:
Learning to Code as a Non-Traditional Student (https://gist.github.com/wewert/2eea1e0a65c867272174728e23360459)

#### Tutorials: Blogger & Mix Master
 Takeaways, your experience: I worked on Blogger a couple of times over intermission
 but I looked a Mix Master a ton and every time I felt I got better at understanding
 errors and what to do next.

#### Projects: Job Tracker & Rails Mini Project
Takeaways, your experience: These two projects were difficult for me because they
were not tutorials and I was still weighing heavily on hand holding to figure
out what to do next. All in all I did best on the Rails Mini project.


## C: Group Work & Projects

> **Bike Share**

Description: In this project you'll use Ruby, Sinatra, and ActiveRecord to build a site that analyzes bike share usage in San Francisco.

Takeaways, your experience: Bike Share was one of the biggest project I've ever been a part of and I learned the use of Sinatra and ActiveRecord along with all the Ruby I learned the previous module. This project involved using open-source data of all the data collected from the San Francisco bike share program. It was pretty amazing how we could use this data. To be able to figure out how to grab data we needed and to modify that data.

> **Little Shop of Orders**

Description: In this project you’ll use Ruby on Rails to build an online commerce platform to facilitate online ordering.

Takeaways, your experience: This project was difficult for me because I had a hard time speaking up and I felt like the weakest link. Our DTR was completed with me expressing my hours of work availabilities but it was difficult for my team to work my hours. After a couple of days of stressing about this, I spoke with Andrew and Alison regarding what was happening and how to solve it. I can to the conclusion that I would pair with one partner while the other one worked on a problem, then switch. This solution was taken positively and we managed to get work done and I got a chance to learn.

| CATEGORY | Bike Share (scores optional) | Little Shop (scores optional) |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **Project Spec** | [Bike Spec](https://github.com/turingschool/bike-share/blob/master/README.md) | [Shop Spec](http://backend.turing.io/module2/projects/little_shop) |
| **Github Repo** | [Bike Repo](https://github.com/ryt11/bike-share) | [Shop Repo: ](https://github.com/bschwartz10/little_shop_of_orders) |
| **Functional Expectations** | 2 | 3 |
| **ActiveRecord** | 2.5 | 3.5 |
| **User Experience and Conventions** | 3 | 3 |
| **Working Collaboratively** | 3 | 3 |
| **Models** | n/a | 3.5 |
| **Testing** | 4 | 3 |
| **Working Collaboratively** | 3 | 3 |

Bike Share evaluation comments:
Good work and great use of rails methods.


##### Feedback to me for Bike Share

  From Sergey: It’s been a pleasure to work  with Ken on the BikeShare project. He has been a great asset to this project.  He showed great communication skills with the rest of the team in person and online. Ken is positive and bring his best everyday.

  From Riley: Working with Ken on Bike Share was a rewarding experience. I enjoyed Ken’s optimistic attitude  which helped to keep the atmosphere fun, no matter the issues we were having related to the project.  Although Ken has other important responsibilities outside of school which keep him on a tight schedule, he did his absolute best to communicate that and remain available. Ken has a great desire to learn/improve and is always asking questions to understand things more clearly. I enjoyed that spirit, and would very much enjoy working with him again in any context.

##### Feedback to me for Little Shop

  Victoria: Ken! You were a total pleasure to work with during Little Shop! I’ve already told you this, but you’re a vital asset to our cohort and I’m glad I finally got a chance to work with you on a project!! Your creative approach to everything is extremely refreshing and delightful! I think you’re really self-aware and know that you might need a little more practice with the ins-and-outs of ActiveRecord commands and bits of syntax, but overall, you understand the concepts and are totally capable of navigating around any beastly Rails project. I would recommend maybe re-trying blogger or mix-master over break, but then again, I’m sure we’ll have plenty of pre-work to help us practice! :wink: Again, it’s been such an enjoyable experience working with you and I hope we get to again soon!

  Brett: t was a pleasure working with you on this project. Throughout the project I saw a lot of improvement from you. The last couple of days your were able to write your own tests and build out the features with small guidance. You also did a great job of asking about features you didn’t understand.  I felt at times you were overwhelmed by the scope of the application. I would focus on implementing deliberate practice into your practice routine. Pick a small part of the application you are confused about and practice building it out 3-4 times. Then after you feel comfortable with that portion of the application, move on to the next.  Overall, I enjoyed working with you throughout this project and also getting to know you better outside of school. Looking forward to working with you on future projects!


## D: Professional Skills

https://gist.github.com/wewert/ba3d353f2a54d95d597aa1fc8c0d5001

#### **Professional Development Workshops**
Warm Outreach, Agile Process, Feedback: http://backend.turing.io/professional_development/

#### **Gear Ups**

 [Empathy](https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/empathy.markdown)
Empathy has alway been something I was aware of. I feel like that is a trait I am lucky to be conscious of naturally. I think the teaching of it is important because not everyone is aware. To understand where people come from is important because it helps you become a better communicator. Though I feel like I am good at this I have found I am always learning to be better at it. To catch my bias's. I'm aware that sometimes I can be a bit strong on how I want to express my views.

 [Grit](https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/grit.markdown)
Empathy has alway been something I was aware of. I feel like that is a trait I am lucky to be conscious of naturally. I think the teaching of it is important because not everyone is aware. To understand where people come from is important because it helps you become a better communicator. Though I feel like I am good at this I have found I am always learning to be better at it. To catch my bias's. I'm aware that sometimes I can be a bit strong on how I want to express my views.

[Automation](https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/automation.markdown)
How did your grit come into play? Thinking about long-term future goals that I am passionate about. Looking ahead to the idea of working on projects that I find interesting, and am passionate about. Turing is part of the journey to achieving those goals. Have you been able to strengthen your grit (or your grittiness) in your time at Turing?

I still have issues with the definition of grit. I find it hard to digest the "Passion" part. I've heard that use so many times and I feel like it's too broad and too either like. I think this is based on my personal view of I don't know what my passion is/are. I worry about the idea of grit pushing people into believing they can do anything because not everyone can. Turing ask people to leave if they feel the student is not showing progress and that makes me wonder if that person is not capable of learning coding. But that is only because I consider Turing staff to be professionals and their opinions are based on fact. I'm not sure if my grit is any stronger than before I came to Turing.

I think that this is only an issue if the people who run the world only think of everything as black and white. That the only out come is to cut out more people with out a plan for the ones that are cut. Not just saying that people will learn new better skills to make better wages. Fact is there are people who won't and those people will suffer. I believe that there are more people who will suffer than benefit from automation with out plans to better support the ones that are cut. I think society would fall apart if Automation is just to benefit the few versus the many.


## E: Feedback and Community Participation

#### **Giving Feedback**

##### Feedback from me for Bike Share

  Sergey, I'm glad we had an opportunity to work on a project together. You always kept on the positive side and always wanted to learn. You took the opportunity to say I don't know and can you explain what's going on. Those moments helped me learn more because I was thinking the same thing but did not ask. You willingness to take on hard problems and keep on it until it was completed is admirable.

  Riley, I think you are a really talented team member. I know we would not of gotten to where were on the project if it wasn't for you. You knowledge and calmness helped keep me level headed. I especially found your willingness to listen to feedback and take action inspiring. We team talked about how we could do better with you teaching us and you did. You slowed down for us and walked us through some really complex stuff. I also learned to that I should speak up more and earlier on because you taught me the benefits of using one of my strengths - communication. I look forward to getting the opportunity to work with you again. Thank you!!!


##### Feedback from me for Little Shop

  Victoria, it was great getting to work with you on this project. I must admit I was very intimidated with seeing your name on the list of partners because I know you are one of the many super smart people in our cohort and I was really worried I was going to bring you down. You helped me get over my fears by taking the time to sit with me and walk me through the features. You kept believing in me when I didn't believe in myself. Thank you for your kindness and help! You will be amazing developer/mentor someday...soon.

  Brett, it was a great opportunity to get to work with you. You know your stuff! It was great seeing you jump in and tackle problems and your dedication was inspiring. I hope I can get a chance to learn from you. You have a wealth of knowledge that will get you far in this industry.


#### **Playing a Part**

I have contributed to the Turing community through being an active member of the Turing Diversity group. I made it a part of my time here at Turing because I believe I can make a difference in our community by helping making it more diverse and helping our diverse population feel at home. I have helped a few students get grants with my experience getting grants by guiding them on how the process works. I still wish I could make a bigger difference by helping more students with the grant process.

------------------

## Final Review

#### Notes
*  Definitely seen growth and mastery of much of M2 content
*  Final written assessment and retake Pending
*  Great addition to the Turing community

#### Outcome

PENDING
