# Ken Lee - M1 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

I plan to work on my ruby knowledge and improve what I learned from last mod. Also, to try to cope with stress better.

## Self-Assessment Scores

| Section | Category | Score |
| ----- | ----- | ----- |
| A | **End-of-Module Assessment** | 3 |
| B | **Individual Projects** | 3 |
| C | **Group Projects** | 3 |
| D | **Professional Development** | 3 |
| E | **Community** | 3 |

#### Notes

*   Feel like this mod was the mod I learned! I learned I can code and to believe in myself. To let the "bad" go and get going again. To focus on the good. Something that I normally don't do. Because of that view I had a lot of fun this time. That was a big part of me breaking through and learning.

------------------------------------------------

## A: End of Module Assessment

| Category | Result (pass, fail, pending) |
| ----- | --- |
| Pairing Assessment | pass|
| Independent Timed Assessment | score |
| Diagnostic | passed |

## B: Individual Projects

| CATEGORY | Credit Check | Flashcards | HTTP |
| ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- |
| **Project Spec** | [link](http://backend.turing.io/module1/projects/credit_check) | [link](http://backend.turing.io/module1/projects/flashcards) | [link](http://backend.turing.io/module1/projects/http_yeah_you_know_me) |
| **Github** | [link](https://github.com/turingschool/ruby-submissions/blob/master/1701-b/1module/credit_check/ken-lee/credit_check.md) | [link](https://github.com/turingschool/ruby-submissions/blob/master/1701-b/1module/flashcards/ken_lee/rubric.md) | [link](https://github.com/turingschool/ruby-submissions/blob/master/1701-b/1module/http/ken-lee/rubric.md) |
| **Functional Expectations** | 3 | 3 | n/a |
| **Test-Driven Development** | n/a | 3 | n/a |
| **Encapsulation/Breaking Logic into Components** | 2.5 | 3 | n/a |
| **Fundamental Ruby & Style** | 3 | 3 | n/a |
| **Loop or Recursion** | n/a | 3 | n/a |
| **Enumerable & Collections | n/a | 3 | n/a |

#### Notes

*   Note 1 https://gist.github.com/wewert/ea5dfeabebb56da75a463364ba0f71af

## C: Group Projects

| CATEGORY | Night Writer | Black Thursday |
| ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- |
| **Project Spec** | [link](http://backend.turing.io/module1/projects/night_writer) | [link](http://backend.turing.io/module1/projects/black_thursday) |
| **Github** | [link](https://github.com/frustratedswede/night_writer) | [link](https://github.com/glassjoseph/black_thursday) |
| **Functional Expectations** | 3 | 4 |
| **Test-Driven Development** | 2 | 3 |
| **Encapsulation/Breaking Logic into Components** | 2.5 | 3 |
| **Fundamental Ruby & Style** | 2.5 | 3 |
| **Enumerable & Collections** | n/a | 4 |
| **Code Sanitation** | n/a | 4 |

## D: Professional Development

### Define-the-Relationship (DTR)

[Link](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1TegCyBVJS6habxZszZmQidNj2A4DHYUIP3pTO4sNFIM/edit#heading=h.l3ct5pv2ggfg)

### Pair Feedback
From Andrew:
Ken, it was truly a pleasure. I couldn’t have asked for a better first pairing experience. Room was left for improvement, such as being more specific in the initial planning stage so that we didn’t run into trouble coming together at the end, but I think we both learned from that which is a definite plus. Your demeanor was always positive and made for productive remote sessions and problem solving. Things always go smoother when you can get along. Just remember that if you get stuck, there’s no option that isn’t worth trying. Generally, you were great and I think we could destroy some projects if we get a second chance at it. Keep it up man!

For Ken: Night Writer Project (Andrew Mossefin): Hey Andrew, it was great working with you on the Night Writer project. You showed me how bad ass you were at ripping through codes. I like our interaction when figuring out problems. That we played on each others strengths and knowledge to get things done. Your calm and letting me know to take breaks helped me stay focused on the task at hand. To make things more smoother next time I would get more comfortable with using Git, TTD, and workflow tools(spectacle, vs code, etc). Like we discussed we both need to work better at planning out projects, to which we both will start bullet pointing our projects into task. Your enthusiasm and willingness to work like a rabid dog is inspiring.

From Joseph: Black Thursday (Joseph Glass): Hey Joseph, your skill and understanding of everything we've learned so far is mind blowing. You ability to work as a pair is exactly what I needed to learn what a perfect pairing is. Thank you for that. I felt we made a great team where our strengths and weaknesses balanced each other out.

For Ken: Ken, I’m amazed by your commitment to code every day against all challenges. When we paired, I felt I could focus on just one just one tiny aspect of the problem, fully confident that you would catch mistakes, add insights, and improve our code when we switched tasks. You helped me develop a more consistent, readable style, and taught me to use advanced methods like .reduce. The only areas for improvement I notice, you’re already working on. You’re drilling on classes and method interactions, you’re practicing Vim and your typing to avoid errors and speed your coding. I know that as you fix those “attention drains”, you’re going to become an unstoppable programmer. Thanks for everything!

### Job Prep

*   LinkedIn profile:
[Link](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ken-lee-882bb23/)

## E: Community

### Gear Up

#### Session 1 Growth Mindset
Growth mindset is still something I keep in my present mind from last mod. I still have to stop myself when stuck and feeling low and tell myself how does this feeling help me and what can I do at this moment. I admit I still go down the fixed mindset road. It's a hard thing to get out of and I don't think I will ever completely change something that has been engrained in my since my presences here on Earth. I do commiserate with fellow students still to let out steam but I have to admit I don't know real use that does to help me. All I know is, growth mind set tells me that I need to keep moving forward. I know I'm learning I know way more than I did last mod. The fixed mind set in me worries about things I can't control like Turing decision. If
Turing deems me unfit to move on. That keeps going through my head because that is reality. How does growth mindset reconcile that?

#### Session 2 How to deal with difficult things better
I like learning how to view learning difficult things. For instance, to not look at the whole thing of learning how to code as a one giant thing but to break it down into just a few things that I can master. I already do that on a day to day basis but I've never connected the dots with my learning the codes. I only looked at learning the codes as a big chuck and wind up choking on it. If I cut it up in to smaller pieces that I can master and then move on to the next couple, and the next couple. In a while I'll know a bunch. I've been doing this with learning Vim, so I have experience doing this. I just need to use this to learn coding. I do still need to do more research on techniques on how to accomplish this kind learning so I can be more
efficient. Less time trying to learn and more quality time learning.

#### Session 3 Stress Management
I found myself having a hard time coming up with what I do to relieve stress. And I found that more peoples ideas were boring. I'm sure it helps them out but I wanted to relieve stress in a different way. What ever that is. I tend to go to a very dark places when dealing with high stress. I've always been this way. I did not have good role models growing up on how to deal with stress. My mom had bi-polar disorder and she handled stress by freaking out and destroying everything in her path which included her children. Especially her children. So, my way of dealing with stress is to internalize it and keep it in. I know that is not good but I don't know how else to deal with it. Stress gets to me and I become over whelmed and I shut down.
I want to be able to handle it better but I don't know how. It would have been nice to hear some techniques on how to deal with stress other then have people write down that go to the gym, go hiking, read a book, listen to music...

#### Session 4 Personal Stories and Connections
The session was just like the last mod and I reflected on the differences of my prospective. I've thought a lot about how the issues I have are still blocks for me. Less now though. I think I'm trying to change for the better. I know more about where my weaknesses are and though not perfect...I am aware. That is a huge steps for me. To not just survive but think about how and why I do what I do. When I came to Turing because I wanted to know I can make my life better. That I can do this programming stuff. That I know I can be like everyone else. I've notice I do better when I do the growth mindset. I hope to get better at all this. I know I can and I will.

#### Session 5 Code: Debugging the Gender Gap
This movie was something I'm very familiar with because I've worked in the industry for years and I've seen and heard all. Some of the people I've worked with even believe they are socially conscious and think they are doing the right thing. But the reality is that they were adding the the same culture that is all wrong. I hope to help change this when I get in to the actual coding and looked at at the same level. Exactly what I mean with the last sentence.

### Community Participation
I have participated in the Turing Diversity group and tried to help with how we can help a more diverse peoples become interested and join Turing. I have also submitted to Jorge my outline of how to get grants for school. I have also helped out fellow students in class with questions.

-------------------------------------------------------------

## Final Review

*   Note 1
*   Note 2

### Outcome

(PROMOTED, RETAINED, DISMISSED, PROVISIONAL)

# (Ken Lee) - (M1) Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

(What did you set out to accomplish this module?): To learn as much ruby as I
can with the time that I have. Also, to take advantage of the personal growth
(which I didn't know we had to do until after I started) and have it guild me to
be better rounded professionally and personally. I really want to get
comfortable with sitting down and being able to see a problem, break it down,
and solve it with code.

## Rubric Scores

* **A: End-of-Module Assessment**: 1
* **B: Individual Work & Projects**: 3
* **C: Group Work & Projects**: 3
* **D: Professional Skills**: 4
* **E: Feedback & Community Participation**: 4

-----------------------

## A: End of Module Assessment

(Notes & scores from your assessment rubric): Didn't get any notes or score. Was
asked how I felt I did. I gave my honest opinion and stated "I want/need to
repeat mod 1. I felt uneasy with where I was and that even if I would have
passed the final assessment that day I would have wanted to repeat because
cramming was not knowing."


## B: Individual Work & Projects

#### (Credit Check)

* [GitHub
  URL](https://github.com/wewert/credit_check.gis://github.com/wewert/credit_check.git)

(description): Build a program that validates credit card numbers.

(evaluation comments): N/A

(evaluation scores): N/A

#### (Jungle Beats)

* [Github URL](https://github.com/wewert/jungle_beats_2.git)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/wewert/jungle_beats_2.git)

(description): Build a program that plays a sound for every linked list string using the command line and a chosen computer voice.

(evaluation comments)
Thought i1
Strong tests for what's build. Actually Tdd'd
Style and syntax solid
No need for recursion with i1

(evaluation scores)
Functional Expectations: 1
TDD: 4
Encapsulation/Breaking Logic into Components: 3
Fundamental Ruby & Style: 3
Looping or Recursion: N/A

#### (Enigma)

* [Github URL](https://github.com/wewert/enigma.git)
* [Original Assignment]()

(description) Build a program that encrypts a message using a key and offset.
Also, decrypt encrypted message with reverse method

(evaluation comments): Only encrypt works
Style across project pretty strong
Some gaps in testing, in general suite is pretty strong
Solid division of responsibilities across classes and methods

(evaluation scores)
Overall Functionality: 1
Fundamental Ruby & Style: 3
TDD: 3
Breaking Logic into Components: 3

#### (Mastermind)

* [Github URL](https://github.com/wewert/mastermind.git)
* [Original Assignment]()

(description) Build a program for a game that makes a four color key and have a
player guess against the color.

(evaluation comments) Ilana stated the code was good and working to her
satisfaction. Wanted to know how the I felt about the project and I told her
that I felt good about it because I could manage the give requirements and time.

(evaluation scores) N/A

#### (Flashcards)

* [Github URL](https://github.com/wewert/flashcards.rb.git)
* [Original Assignment]()

(description): Flashcard program that is used through the command line. A user
will be able to see the questions, take guesses, and see a final score at the
end of the round.uild a program that makes a terminal based flashcard game.

(evaluation comments): Ilana stated I did a good job with logic and flow. She
helped me with a few tweeks to get the game hint section working.

(evaluation scores) N/A

#### (Headcount)

* [Github URL](https://github.com/edilenedacruz/headcount.git)
* [Original Assignment]()

(description): Project has us (pair) build software that pulls data from
multiple places to generate new data in regards to Colorado schools.

(evaluation comments): 56 tests all passing
got through IT 4 and passing test harness
had some good method usage with "send"

(evaluation scores)
Functional Expectations: 2
TDD: 3
Encapsulation/Breaking Logic into Components: 3
Fundamental Ruby & Style: 3
Enumerable & Collections: 4


## C: Group Work & Projects

### Projects

(feedback to me)
### Professional Development Workshops
## D: Professional Skills
Personal Branding I:

My name is Ken Lee. I am taking on this journey to become a
software developer. I have never been a really great student. Actually I've
never been a good or even an average student. I've always been a below average
student. So this challenge that I have some how been accepted to will be the
biggest I have ever taken on. I worked in the software industry for over 10
years now but never in the trenches. I was the operations manager, project
manager, or office manager. I became interested in the development part after
becoming friends with a bunch of them. The software consultancy I last worked
for closed and I had an opportunity to take the dive. I decided I wanted to try
to get into Turing.

Working resume: [ link to resume ](https://turingschool.slack.com/files/wewert/F3QN2KQ4A/dtrheadcount.pdf)

LinkedIn:
profile:https://www.linkedin.com/in/ken-lee-882bb23?trk=hp-identity-name

Feedback from Meg:
RESUME-Check out Creddle.io if you’d like to experiment with some different
templates
Headline
Remove location
Add linkedin, github

Summary
I like your summary though I would cut out “that will help propel COMPANY NAME
to the next level” and actually just add another sentence that expands on how
you’ve gone from project management to operations management to software
development.

Skills
Good placement.
Continue to add to this area during the course of the program. Ideally you want
12-20 items

Projects
Good placement. Just for future reference:
Follow skills with a project section that includes 2-3 of your favorite projects
Answer the following questions-
What problem does it solve?
What does it allow the user to do?
What is the high level overview of the project?
What stack is this app built in?
If you worked in a group, what was your focus?
Deploy and repository with clickable web addresses

Experience
Follow Projects with Experience
I do think you’re going to need to reduce some bullet points if at all possible
as adding project info will cause your resume to exceed two pages. I think
bullet points like the final one under New Type Central could be eliminated as
they dont tell us much.  Remember to focus on the value that you brought to the
organization rather than the individual tasks performed
For New Type Central, I think you could also combine CO and Content Manager
Consultant on the same line to save a little space
Turing can fall under experience or education but the nice thing about having it
here is it doesn’t get buried under your professional history and it ties in
with your self identification as a software developer. That’s also the nice
thing about titling this category as “experience” rather than work history is
that it doesn’t have to pertain exclusively to work
Format should start with title followed by company

Education
Remove dates
Hello fellow Lobo!!!!

LINKEDIN
Software Developer should be included as part of your headline (preferably the
first part).
Customize your URL
https://www.linkedin.com/help/linkedin/answer/87/customizing-your-public-profile-url?lang=en
Complete a Summary describing who you are, how you got here and, if applicable,
your goal for the future. Tell us about yourself, your passions and your
ambitions in a short paragraph or two (this should expand on your resume summary
rather than duplicate it).
You’ll want to add Projects as you complete them, after summary. If working with
a team, one team member should create a project link to the code source, give
overview and then link team members.
Add Turing to Experience with open-ended date (16/06-present) and provide
detailed descriptions via paragraph format for each previous employer as well as
information on what you’re doing at Turing.
If you’re going to have fake experience, at least give me a creative
description! :)
Also put Turing under Education (IE, put it in Education AND Experience) - in
order to connect with other alumni/future students
Skills-don’t forget to add your tech skills!

Learning to Pair:

My first pair with with Brandon. I had high hopes because he was a repeater and
I was feeling a bit lost. We did not complete the DTR per requested by Brandon
to finish it later. The pairing did not go as smoothly as hoped. Timing to pair with two
people with 7 young children between us became a challenge.
(Intro)

### Gear Up
#### (Growth Mindset)

* [Workshop URL](https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/m1_citizenship/session_1_growth_mindset.markdown)
* [Link to Completed Deliverables]()

(takeaways from session): I never heard of Growth mindset or fixed mindset.
After the workshop I figured out I have a fixed mindset based on my reactions to
Turing thus far. From childhood to adulthood, I've been
raised to have a fixed mindset. Grades, reward and punishment, deadlines, test,
do your work or you'll get fired, etc... Growth mindset is like a secret
  philosophy no one talks about. It's not practiced by society as a whole. At
  least from my view. There are some things that I would like to hear about
  growth mindset and the fray of society and how it would be addressed. How is
  it practiced? How is it taught (verses just talking about it)? It seems
  like it's a good idea and that's as far as it goes. That there is still this
  wall of "be a grown up and figure it out on your own". That we must do things
  on your own to "truly" have it count. Which seems like the
  idea of people talking about doing good but not taking action to actually
  achieve it. I will try to be present to the idea of growth mindset and I have
  already been reflecting on myself because of this. I think growth mindset is
  to stop thinking about failure as an end and to see it as a step. To learn
  from it. To learn from negative thoughts. Know that theses thoughts will never
  go away but how to look at those thoughts from another angle and use them to
  drive you forward. I'm learning this because of Turing. I see that now.

#### (Public Narrative)
(takeaways from session): The session was great to get us new students going and
understanding more of what Turing wants us to become. If the mission statement
is true, then I believe I am set up to be exactly what Turing wants. I want to
not just build software but to make a difference in our community/country. I've
always been someone who is mindful of helping others. Every chance I get. After
Turing I will have a skill that can help people better their lives. That idea is
mind blowing to me!

#### (Extrovert/Introvert)
(takeaways from session): Well, pretty much my take away was what I thought it
would be, I'm an extrovert. Funny to workshop with the opposites because I
thought they seemed pretty out going for introverts. I believe that I can use
you extroverted personality to become a lead on a project because I can get
along with peers and clients. I see a disadvantage being that I need to let
people talk versus taking over the conversation. I don't think I have a problem
with listening per se but I need to actually let people talk... This workshop
needed a bit more though. I felt that it was too short and didn't feel like the
point of it was really hit point. I wanted more.

#### (Grit)
(takeaways from session): The session was great. Though my group and I believe
that grit i over used and the negative side was never really resolved. We
discussed that burn out is a problem with the idea of grit but no solutions were
offered. We used the term letting out steam but that was too much of a
general/non-action placeholder saying. It would have been nice to get some
examples and then play through some solutions in small and large group. I feel
like I have grit. I just need to learn to control my emotions...say's the guy
who has a poetry degree.


#### (Branding I)
(takeaways for session): I need to work my resume over to be more software
developer like. To consider myself a software developer now. Only thing was
interesting was to not consider myself a software engineer. I understand why but
all my professional friends use that title and they don't have degrees in
Engineering.

#### (Feedback)
(takeaways for session): I learned not to dump on a pair partner. How to handle
a bad pair professionally. It was really needed at the time I was pairing.

#### (Branding II)
(takeaways for session): Rewriting my title page was fun. The new outlook I have
after six weeks has changed and I really wanted to focus on my passions-helping
people.

## E: Feedback and Community Participation

### Giving Feedback (Feedback From Me)
For Maria: Hey Maria, I'm so happy to be able to write you a peer review! You have been a
great cohort partner to me and an example of what hard work and passion looks
like. You not only take the time out of your busy day to help me but anyone in
our cohort who needs some extra support. You are the first one to take notice
and lend a hand. You are an example of what it means to at Turing; a person that
is willing to help others succeed, a person who doesn't just think of
themselves, a person who has situational awareness of how others are feeling and
takes actions to insure we are okay personally and professionally. You have
demonstrated your ability to take abstract class lessons and apply it into real
working code and willing to share this information by teaching it to anyone who
needs it. You have an excellent eye to details and patience to work a problem
from beginning to end. You will surely become a software engineer that will be
more then a developer but a leader.

For Andy: Andy, I have enjoyed getting to know you in our cohort and seeing how
much you are learning so far. You have always been so positive and reminding me
that everything is okay. I appreciate all your help you have giving me working
on drills. You were always positive and patiently leading me in the right
direction letting me solve problems myself. Your cool head and enthusiasm at
solving complex problems is something I want to learn from. Your approach of
writing down on paper where the data goes has been influential to my learning
processes and I plan to use that method more on my projects. I see you making a
big impact on any team you wind up working for. You are the exact type of
developer that companies I've worked for look for in a new hire. A great culture
fit and abilities to learn complex ideas and solve them in a calm and fun
attitude will definitely get you going places.

For Johnathan: Johnathan, you have been awesome at being a fellow cohort(er) and
I am inspired by you perception and action to make Turing a more inclusive space
by starting the Turing minority group. I am honored and excited to see how we
can make a difference to our community (not just Turing but our local tech
community). I feel with we can make a positive difference! I've seen you
studying hard early in the morning and into the late hours in the Blakement and
I am inspired by your dedication and know you will be an influence to incoming
cohorts with your example. I have no doubt you will become an amazing developer
and continue your work to better people of colors lives through learning to
code.

For Edilene(G): Hey Edilene, you are such an amazing coder already! I am so
grateful that I got to pair with you on our last project. Your example of how to
break down the project into smaller parts has helped me to understand what needs
to be working on. You have showed me how to better read error and use TDD to
build out parts. You always take the opportunity to teach me at every chance and
with this skill you will be a great addition to any company because that is a
strong skill that helps pairs learn together and build awesome code. Your
enthusiasm for the code and building software is inspiring and I see you using
this to inspire and help others wanting to learn to code. Your dedication and
hard-work shows everyday I see you and in every Screenhero pairing. Let me take
this opportunity to thank you for you support and example!

### Being a Community Member (Feedback To Me)

From Maria: Ken! You have been such an awesome contribution to our cohort! Your
dedication to learning the material and sticking with it through the rough parts
is admirable. When the going gets tough, you stick with it, and you utilize the
resources around you (fellow classmates, mentors, upper-mod-ers). I have really
enjoyed working on exercises & challenges with you, especially over the holiday
break when Blakement was rather creepy, and it is awesome to watch when you
understand a concept and things click! While you enjoy piecing together the big
picture in Ruby, you don't hesitate to seek out other learning avenues and
asking yourself: What can I learn now to add to my toolbox? You are constantly
seeking to improve yourself, and beyond that: you are always willing to help
other students and lend an ear when someone is having a hard time. Moreover, you
are one of the most approachable people in our cohort, and I can see that people
feel at ease when coming to you with both personal and code-related issues.
Being such a team-player, I foresee that you will make a great contribution to a
dev team, and having those interpersonal soft-skills will serve you well! It's
been awesome working with you and I am excited to see what comes next!

From Andy: I am continually impressed with Kens drive to learn.  I’m sincere
when I say that there are few in our cohort who have exhibited the grit and
growth mindset that Ken has. On a near daily basis since the start of our
cohort, I have watched Ken plug through almost every drill imaginable and, with
an incredible amount of grace, admit openly that he was struggling to gain an
understanding of the material.  I am honored that he reached out to me several
times in the past several weeks for help.  He was a pleasure to work through
things with and at no time exhibited self-pity, whining, or any other negative
behavior that one general associates with someone in duress; rather, he always
kept about him an attitude of knowledge-seeking and odd glee when faced with
problems.  He forced me to grow my own knowledge in making, at times, haphazard
attempts to explain things, and I’m thankful for the time I got to spend with
working with Ken.      
I’m always impressed with the ease with which Ken interacts with people.  He
is seemingly continually engaged in dialogue with some member of our cohort.
He is quick to compliment someones work and always keeps those around him in
good cheer with jokes.  I’m happy that we were both a part of 1611.  His
presence and our interactions single-handedly made the past 6 weeks better.
Don’t change at all Ken.  You’re a rock star!

From Johnathan: Ken, your dedication to this program is surpassed by none. We
all come here to learn how to program but you strive to understand the material
to the point where you feel comfortable enough to work with it in a variety of
ways. Your approach of having a solid foundation before moving on has made me
change my method of learning for the better. Being a great communicator is one
of your perks, for example explaining to me why I was not being able to pull
from Github and talking me through the steps of how to resolve the conflict is
only one of the many instances where your skills have had a positive impact on
me. I have faith in your ability in becoming a well rounded programmer. Thanks
for being an awesome peer, friend and community member.


### Playing a Part

(ways you supported the larger Turing community)
-Participated in Impostors Lunch
-Participated in Turing Lab(Maker Posse)
-Participated in a few Brown-Bag Lunch Roulettes
-Participated in Guest Speaker: Krista Morgan Talk
-Participated in Pahlka
-Participated in Christopher Gantz Talk
-Made sure to check in on fellow students/SAB members for our cohort and making sure they were okay and
relayed to teaching staff of anyone that I had concerns with
-Relayed my lighting talk deck to fellow students who requested it and passed on
other grant information to them
-Helped fellow students every chance I got (i.e. moral, encouragement, codes,
typing, resume. etc...)

------------------

## Final Review

### Notes

( Leave blanks for reviewers )

### Outcome

RETAINED
