# Megan McMahon - M4 Portfolio Reflection

My biggest achievement of the mod was the capstone project - specifically, building a full application in a new language.  It really cemented for me the knowledge of building web applications in general because it pulled me out of my rails comfort zone and made me rely solely on the coding skills that I have learned.

The biggest struggle that I faced this module was working with JavaScript - specifically figuring out what was going on with promises.  For whatever reason, JavaScript has been a tool that, unlike many things in Ruby/Rails, I have had to struggle for each new piece of knowledge.  Specifically with promises, that meant not just doing a lot of research on how they should work, but a lot of time practicing and experimenting with how they do work (at varying levels of success).  While I am not yet at the level of understanding that I would like to be, I do think that this struggle helped me expand how I learn things - leaning more on experience/experiments and less on blogs and stackoverflow.

This inning, I was super excited to work on a capstone project that I will actually use in my life outside of Turing.  I think that this sets me apart from others in my class - while all of the projects were great, I am fairly proud that I am walking away with something that has a value to me outside of the technical lessons that I learned while completing the project.

Though limited, my experience with front-end technologies has given me a great glimpse into what a frontend developer needs from a backend team to be successful.  Often, I think we can relax into our own silos and communities and not be as aware of the other side of the fence as we should be and I think the experience with front end tech helps bridge that gap.  Additionally, the work that I have done with frontend tech has really cemented my love of backend technologies and function.  I waffled just a little when trying to decide which track to take through Turing and I think I made the right choice!

Overall, the most important thing that Turing taught me, and one of the most important things that I will take with me into my next job is the humility to admit when I don't know something, and the research skills to quickly find the answers to those unknowns.
