# Camilo Snapp - M3 Portfolio

### Individual Goals for the Module

**What was your learning focus this inning?** 

I want to become an application developer this module. In order to, make an application
you need to manage state and use frameworks. In this module we learned React, Redux, and Router.
I really appreciate that I made a personal project (Picky Eater).

### Individual Self Assessment
_How do you feel you did in these areas this inning?_

* **A: Individual Work & Projects**: _3+_
* **B: Group Work & Projects**: 3
* **C: Professional Skills**: 3
* **D: Community Participation**: 3
* **E: Final Assessment**: 4

-----------------------

### Final Assessmnet (PASS/FAIL)
* **Outcome:** _Pass_

### Headcount 2.0 (Group)
* **Outcome:** _Pass_

* **Partner:** _Sage__&__Jack_

* **Spec Adherence:** _3_ The application completes all 5 iterations
* **Code Quality:** _3+_Developer appears comfortable in React. There are minor opportunities to refactor.
* **CSS/Sass Style:** _3_ - Developer has made a targeted effort to make the app appealing and user friendly. Evaluator has multiple recommendations for design changes. Follows majority of the 10 Essential Usability Guidelines.
* **Testing:** _4_ Every component is tested from both a unit and acceptance standpoint, all crucial functionality is tested
* **Code Sanitation:** _3_ - Redo
* **PropType Implementation:** Pass - Redone
* **README Updates:** Pass - Redone
* **Workflow:** _4_ - Developer(s) make many small, atomic commits that clearly document the evolution of the application and do not contain irrelevant changesets that aren't reflected by the commit message. Commit messages are concise and consistent in syntax and tense. Developer(s) effectively use git branches and pull requests when applicable to incorporate changes into the application, and are not pushing directly to master. There are no instances where the developer(s) have committed source code that should be .gitignored. There are no instances of "dead" or commented-out code and debugger statements like console.log.


### SWAPIBox (Individual)
* **Outcome:** _Pass_

* **Partner:** _None_

* **Spec Adherence:** _4_ The application completes all 4 iterations above and implements one or more of the extensions.
* **Code Quality:** _3_ - Developer appears comfortable in React. There are minor opportunities to refactor.
* **CSS/Design:** _4_ - Developer has made a targeted effort to make the app appealing and user friendly. Evaluator has minimal recommendations for design changes. Follows 10 Essential Usability Guidelines.
* **Testing:** _2_ - A valid attempt was made to test functionality with obvious gaps where functionality is not tested
* **Proptype:** - Proptype validation is implemented for any component receiving props.
* **README Updates:** - The README.md file has been updated with a description of the project, the team, and how to get it up and
  running
* **Code Sanitation:** _4_ The output from ESLint shows - Zero complaints
* **PropType Implementation:** Pass - Redone
* **Workflow:** _4_ - Developer(s) make many small, atomic commits that clearly document the evolution of the application and do not contain irrelevant changesets that aren't reflected by the commit message. Commit messages are concise and consistent in syntax and tense. Developer(s) effectively use git branches and pull requests when applicable to incorporate changes into the application, and are not pushing directly to master. There are no instances where the developer(s) have committed source code that should be .gitignored. There are no instances of "dead" or commented-out code and debugger statements like console.log.


### Movie Tracker (Group)
* **Outcome:** _Pass_

* **Partner:** _Ryan_&_Krista_

* **Spec Adherence:** _3_ - The application completes all 2 iterations.
* **Code Quality:** _3_ - Developer appears comfortable in React. There are minor opportunities to refactor.
* **CSS/Sass Style:** _3_ - Developer has made a targeted effort to make the app appealing and user friendly. Evaluator has multiple recommendations for design changes. Follows majority of the 10 Essential Usability Guidelines.
* **Testing:** _2.5_ - A valid attempt was made to test functionality with obvious gaps where functionality is not tested
* **PropType Implementation:** Pass - Proptype validation is implemented for any component receiving props.
* **README Updates:** Pass - The README.md file has been updated with a description of the project, the team, and how to get it up and running
* **CodeSanitation:** _3_ - The output from ESLint shows…3 - Five or fewer complaints
* **Redux Architecture:** _3_ - 3: At least one component is not connected with Redux appropriately. Application state is mutated by more than just Redux. The Redux store is missing application data that it should be handling
* **Routing:** _4_ - 4: Application is a single page and uses the React Router to display appropriate components based on URL.
* **Workflow:** _4_ - 4 - Developer(s) make many small, atomic commits that clearly document the evolution of the application and do not contain irrelevant changesets that aren't reflected by the commit message. Commit messages are concise and consistent in syntax and tense. Developer(s) effectively use git branches and pull requests when applicable to incorporate changes into the application, and are not pushing directly to master. There are no instances where the developer(s) have committed source code that should be .gitignored. There are no instances of "dead" or commented-out code and debugger statements like console.log.

### Self-Directed Project - Picky Eater (Individual)
* **Outcome:** _Pass_

* **Partner:** _None_

* **Completion:** _3+_ : Developer completed all the user stories and requirements set during check-ins.
* **CSS/Sass Style:** _4_- - Developer has made a targeted effort to make the app appealing and user friendly. Evaluator has minimal recommendations for design changes. Follows 10 Essential Usability Guidelines.
* **Code Quality:** _3+_ - Developer appears comfortable in React. There are minor opportunities to refactor.
* **Redux Architecture:** _4_-: Appropriate components are wrapped in connected Redux container components. The Redux store contains all necessary application data and nothing more. All state changes are handled through Redux actions and reducers. Developer uses middleware. Actions and reducers are clean. At least one container is reused.
* **Code Sanitation:** _4_ - Zero complaints
* **Testing:** _4_ Every component is tested from both a unit and acceptance standpoint, all crucial functionality is tested
* **Workflow:** _4_ - Developer(s) make many small, atomic commits that clearly document the evolution of the application and do not contain irrelevant changesets that aren't reflected by the commit message. Commit messages are concise and consistent in syntax and tense. Developer(s) effectively use git branches and pull requests when applicable to incorporate changes into the application, and are not pushing directly to master. There are no instances where the developer(s) have committed source code that should be .gitignored. There are no instances of "dead" or commented-out code and debugger statements like console.log.


## Recap of your reflections from Gear Up
* **Gear Up Sessions:**
  * _Microaggressions_ - What I learned from this gear up was to just be more aware of my surroundings and be more conscious, and be more aware. We should be more empathetic to others.
  * _Debugging the Gender Gap_ - This gear up explored why in particular tech is not an inclusive place for women. We also talked about we people who make software should have a diverse backgrounds.
  * _Using Public Data_ - I learned the difference between CivicTech and Gov Tech. I also learned that 
  you can take public data and try to solve civic problems and how to find that data. 

## Summary of how you've contributed to the community

This mod had even more work to be done. I do feel that I made more of an effort to talk to more people in other cohorts. Actually, instead pair programming with 
Mod2. There was more general discussion about programming in general.

# Notes: 

- be more proactive about helping people in other mods, and understand that they've got something to teach you too

# Outcome:

* **A: Individual Work & Projects**: 3
* **B: Group Work & Projects**: 2.5
* **C: Professional Skills**: 3
* **D: Community Participation**: 3
* **E: Final Assessment**: 3
