# Edilene Da Cruz - M1 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

This module I wanted to master my ruby skills by finding new ways of using methods and enumerables. I'm hoping to improve how to break down a problem into small pieces and become a really strong programmer so I can help my classmates as much as possible.

## Rubric Scores

Fill in how you would grade yourself from 1-4 in the following categories this module:

* **A: End-of-Module Assessment**: 3
* **B: Individual Work & Projects**: 3
* **C: Group Work & Projects**: 3
* **D: Professional Skills**: 3
* **E: Feedback & Community Participation**: 3

-----------------------

## A: End of Module Assessment

Assessed By: Beth Sebian

Challenge: Shopping List


##### 1. Ruby Syntax & API
* 3: Developer is able to write Ruby with some debugging of fundamental concepts

##### 2. Completion and Progress
* 3: Developer completes baseline assignment and makes meaningful progress toward one of the Challenge options.

##### 3. Testing
* 3: Developer writes tests that are effective validation of functionality, but don't drive the design

##### 4. Workflow
* 3: Developer demonstrates comfort with their tools and makes some use of keyboard shortcuts

##### 5. Collaboration
* 3: Developer lays out their thinking before attacking a problem and integrates feedback through the process

##### 6. Enumerable & Collections
* 3: Application demonstrates comfortable use of appropriate Enumerable methods


## B: Individual Work & Projects

The individual projects helped me muddle through my thoughts and decide on the best path for a project, which unfortunately didn't work well for Battleship. It's evident that I have room for improvements and that I must learn how to go trough the struggle.

#### Jungle Beat

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/edilenedacruz/jungle_beat.git)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/curriculum/blob/master/source/projects/jungle_beat.markdown)

This project is super fun as you are making a basic drum machine program. The drum machine plays sounds from commands initiated at the Terminal. To complete the project, knowledge of linked lists is needed.

(evaluation comments)

Assessed By: Nate

Notes:

##### 1. Functional Expectations
* 4: Application fulfills all base expectations and the one extension

##### 2. Test-Driven Development
* 4: Application is broken into components which are well tested in both isolation and integration using appropriate data

##### 3. Encapsulation / Breaking Logic into Components
* 3: Application effectively breaks logical components apart but breaks the principle of SRP

##### 4. Fundamental Ruby & Style
* 3:  Application shows strong effort towards organization, content, and refactoring

##### 5. Looping *or* Recursion
* 4: Application makes excellent use of loop/recursion techniques



#### Battleship

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/edilenedacruz/battleship2)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/curriculum/blob/master/source/projects/battleship.markdown)

The goal is to create a terminal version of the board game Battleship. This project has a lot of moving pieces and required me to break down the porject into very small pieces and connect a lot of moving pieces. Unfortunately, I started the project on a weak base and tried to restart it and failed to complete it. I'm hoping to come back and finish it.

Notes:

- Wasn't able to get through a game. Crashed at laying out my ships.
- Love the pirate speak.
- Good code, it's just not all there
- Able to speak about process and logic like a real developer.

##### 1. Fundamental Ruby & Style
* 4:  Application demonstrates excellent knowledge of Ruby syntax, style, and refactoring

##### 2. Enumerable & Collections
* 3: Application demonstrates comfortable use of several Enumerable techniques

##### 3. Test-Driven Development
* 3: Application is well tested but does not balance isolation and integration tests

##### 4. REPL Interface
* 4: Application's REPL goes above and beyond expectations to improve the gameplay

##### 5. Breaking Logic into Components
* 3: Application effectively breaks logical components apart with clear intent and usage

##### 6. Functional Expectations
* 2: Application runs, but does not work properly, or does not meet specifications.

## C: Group Work & Projects

### Projects

Group projects are wonderful cause you have someone to not only help you brainstorm the project but you also have someone helping you thought the hard times and making the easy times fun.

#### Enigma

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/edilenedacruz/enigma)
* [Original Assignment](http://backend.turing.io/module1/projects/enigma)

In this paired project with Jonathan Serrano we create a cyphered message and also a way to decipher it. It is an advanced way of using the ROT-13 cyphering technique.

Assessed By: Ilana

Notes:
- got through crack and an extension
- talked about division of responsibility
- tests are working but only if code is commented out (we talked about commented out code to make things work)
- tests need to be more robust

##### 1. Overall Functionality
* 4: Application follows the complete spec and one extension

##### 2. Fundamental Ruby & Style
* 3:  Application shows some effort toward organization but still has 6 or fewer long methods (> 8 lines) and needs some refactoring.

##### 3. Test-Driven Development
* 3: Application uses tests to exercise core functionality, but has some gaps in coverage or leaves edge cases untested.

##### 4. Breaking Logic into Components
* 2: Application has some logical components but divisions of responsibility are inconsistent or unclear and/or there is a "God" object taking too much responsibility

##### Feedback to me

Edilene,

I want to take this moment to thank you for an amazing paired project experience. I will be honest and admit that I was skeptical how this pairing would go due to never participated in one. Your ability to manipulate data and be able to follow it as it moves from class to class is by far amazing. Listening to your explanations of your implementations of methods and objects really helped in making Enigma an enjoyable project. I know that you preach TDD and we followed it the first couple days but we veered from it as the project got bigger. Causing us to “hack” the code and write tests after code. Staying focused on TDD will help you with your time management by saving you unnecessary reformatting time. Your test writing abilities are an area of strength and I would enjoy seeing you thoroughly master this skill as you seem to be a natural at it. Thanks again for being a helpful, informative, well-rounded partner and good luck on your next pairing. - Jonathan Serrano

#### Headcount

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/edilenedacruz/headcount)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/curriculum/blob/master/source/projects/headcount.markdown)

Headcount is a project where we use data sets to ask and answer questions. To accomplish this project we must use Test Driven Development, decompose the application into smaller components, use fixtures instead of the actual data and connect related objects through references. This project had a great deal of complexity and great utilization of recursion.

Notes:

* 56 tests all passing
* got through IT 4 and passing test harness
* had some good method usage with "send"
* Evaluation Rubric

The project will be assessed with the following guidelines:

##### 1. Functional Expectations
* 2: Application has some missing functionality but no crashes

##### 2. Test-Driven Development
* 3: Application is well tested but does not balance isolation and integration tests, using only the data necessary to test the functionality

##### 3. Encapsulation / Breaking Logic into Components
* 3: Application effectively breaks logical components apart but breaks the principle of SRP

##### 4. Fundamental Ruby & Style
* 3: Application shows strong effort towards organization, content, and refactoring

##### 5. Enumerable & Collections
* 4: Application consistently makes use of the best-choice Enumerable methods

##### 6. Code Sanitation
The output from rake sanitation:all shows...

* 3: Five or fewer complaints

##### Feedback to me
Hey Edilene, you are such an amazing coder already! I am so grateful that I got to pair with you on our last project. Your example of how to break down the project into smaller parts has helped me to understand what needs to be working on. You have showed me how to better read error and use TDD to build out parts. You always take the opportunity to teach me at every chance and with this skill you will be a great addition to any company because that is a strong skill that helps pairs learn together and build awesome code. Your enthusiasm for the code and building software is inspiring and I see you using this to inspire and help others wanting to learn to code. Your dedication and hard-work shows everyday I see you and in every Screenhero pairing. Let me take this opportunity to thank you for you support and example! - Ken Lee

## D: Professional Skills


### Gear Up
#### Growth mindset

* [Workshop URL](https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/m1_citizenship/session_1_growth_mindset.markdown)

The first at Turing will probably one of the hardest one. We are being thrown in a new environment, trying to learn as much as we can while feeling lost the whole time. This gear up was everything we needed: an assurance that the feeling was normal, that we are not "ready yet" to move to the next steps and that other students have been in our shoes and that they survived and thrived. The concept of rewiring our brains to tell us that we don't fail that we are just not ready to move to the next phase is absolutely brilliant and one that I will continue to apply in my life and I will teach others that concept.

### Gear Up
#### Grit

* [Workshop URL](https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/grit.markdown)

Once again, we were presented with another pep talk to tells us that we can be better, that we can achieve higher levels of learning and life achievements if we put our minds to it. Not always will that hard work will translate to success but definitely improvements and even pride that we did persevere and fought for something we desire.


### Gear Up
#### Cohort Norms

* [Workshop URL](https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/m1_citizenship/session_2_cohort_norms.markdown)

Identifying myself as an extrovert was very easy but it was the first time that I could quiz an introvert and poke at their brains and feelings. I definitely learned a lot about them and I'm hoping to incorporate a little bit of their values and thought processing. It was hard however, to get too excited about the group talk as I tend to feed off someone else's energy and the talk quickly end as the introverts would provide very little to the conversation. This gear up also enforced why I typically don't naturally gravitate towards the introverts as they don't give back as much as we extroverts give them.


### Professional Development Workshops
#### Personal Branding Part I

* [Workshop URL](https://github.com/turingschool/professional_skills/blob/master/module_one/personal_branding_p1.md)
* [Link to Completed Deliverables](https://www.linkedin.com/in/edilenedacruz)
* [Link to Completed Deliverables](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0BzJETXxYxATVS2thNW1KbVUwWXM/view)

I'm still struggling with the "Who am I?" part of this workshop, not by lack of great exposure of what to answer but mostly because of myself and where I am in my personal life and mindset. The workshop is presented in such a positive manner that eventually, I will be able to answer this question positively.

#### Learning to Pair: Define the Relationship and Hold Each Other Accountable

* [Workshop URL](https://github.com/turingschool/professional_skills/blob/master/module_one/learning_to_pair.md)
* [Link to Completed Deliverables](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cVB4ULjxXuCj-3m8yj68saqD-XgE9xyuZQ0QG3FRLX0/edit)
* [Link to Completed Deliverables](https://docs.google.com/document/d/13VgHsfNpLkmrSZAmaVYhpYSIQva_6KugCE__H5crgjU/edit)

This second time around pairing was an easier process and establishing the relationship was easy as we were all very straightforward with each other.

#### Feedback I

* [Workshop URL](https://github.com/turingschool/professional_skills/blob/master/module_one/feedback_1.md)

After going through module one a second time, I was able to provide a better feedback while being considerate with my partner's feelings and giving more constructive feedback.

#### Personal Branding Part II

* [Workshop URL](https://github.com/turingschool/professional_skills/blob/master/module_one/personal_branding_p2.md)

With a better mindset this module, I was able to enjoy this workshop more as I can look forward to implement the tips provided. When I was repeating, this workshop just deepened the wound cause it emphasized my failure or my "not yet" state.


## E: Feedback and Community Participation

### Giving Feedback

To Daniel Olson - Many times you dedicated your time to teach others and help them succeed even when it meant you didn't have enough time to complete you own project, I couldn't be luckier to have you in my cohort. Great code is not only your present to us but also how be to an amazing human being. I'm really looking forward to work with you in the future.


### Being a Community Member

From Maria Stenquist - G! I remember you giving me some sound advice at the beginning of the Module: do as many of the exercises, drills, projects that I could possibly squeeze in. I didn't realize how big of an undertaking that advice would be! That said, you were so generous with your time with me, as well as others. I remember for the first individual project given, you screenhero'd with me for a few hours on a Saturday, and at that point I felt honored and empowered to be a part of the Turing community. Not only were you helpful with understanding coding concepts, you went out of your way to make sure things were going well with me, and you were very approachable. I love the conversations that we have! I admire your drive for digging in and committing to the "software developer in the making" life. I have seen tremendous growth from you over these some odd weeks, and I think your positive attitude, shift in perspective, and ability to not let your past dictate your future will get you a long, long way towards achieving your goals. That coupled with an openness to learn from others, as well as a willingness to teach others: is gold. You are a true example of what it means to be an inclusive Turing member, and I expect to see great things from you  in Module 2 and beyond! Um grande abraço a você!

From Daniel Olson - Edilene is a fabulous person to work with. She always brings a smile and a positive attitude to class that is so contagious you just can't help but being effected by her. Her perseverence and determination to work past difficult problems while keeping this attitude is her strongest strength. I remember messaging her at 5:00am, still being up, struggling with my project and she still tried to cheer me up even though she was dealing with a similarily difficult problem. Thanks "G" for being so awesome!

### Playing a Part

During this module I was a little more able to help my peers programming wise but I feel that I still struggled more than even I expected as a I repeater and that truly bothers me; however, this time I was able to keep a better atittute and did my absolute best to keep my peers thoughts in the right place and thinking on the bright side. We are truly fortunate to be going through this life changing experience.

------------------

## Final Review

### Outcome

PROMOTED
