#Ngoc Phan - M2 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

My primary goal for mod 2 was to get a better understanding of array prototypes. They were introduced in mod 1 and I was so confused that I made it a goal to attend iron FEs and get up to speed. I also had a goal of being a good pairing partner. I wanted to solidify what I learned in mod 1 by pairing with them and seeing different ways to write the same code. 

## Self-Evaluation

* **A: Individual Work & Projects**: 3+
* **B: Group Work & Projects**: 3+
* **C: Professional Skills**: 3+
* **D: Community Participation**: 3
* **E: Final Assessment**: Pass    

-----------------------

## A: Individual Work & Projects

Our individual projects this mod were Sorting Suite and Complete Me. Sorting Suite taught us four different algorithms for sorting information. I found that although I could not come up with the algoritms myself, I took a lot out of the project. It was a start to turning how something works into code. Complete Me was a project where we created a data tree that takes in words, sorted it, and returned suggestions in which we used in our final weathrly project. This project was hard for me but I was able to follow the code and it made sense at the end. 

### Study Habits

My study habits this mod did not change from last. I had established a schedule that worked for me last mod and it continued this mod. I come in over the weekends to work on the projects and then was a little more relaxed comes the weekends. I still spend three hours a night every night going over lessons and working on code during the weekdays. I plan on continuing this schedule.

### Sorting Suite
* **Outcome:** Pass

I enjoyed seeing how the logic of sorting objects translated into code. It was very challenging to come up with the code. Our mod was able to work together as a whole to come up with the code which was nice. After that it was a matter of doing reps and memorizing the logic to create the code. Through this project, I was able to get more examples of how to take a big problem and break it down into smaller pieces. I wasn't very confident doing so at the start. This ability to work through problems this way will be very helpful for me for the remainder of Turing and after.  


### Complete Me
* **Fundamental JS and Style:** 3
* **Testing:** 3+
* **Encapsulation/Breaking Logic into Components:** 3+
* **Functional Expectations:** 3
* **Code Sanitation:** 3

I felt the same way with Complete Me as I did with Sorting Suite. It was fun seeing the process. I enjoyed the ability to take what we created in Complete Me and made use of it in Weathrly. 

## B: Group Work & Projects

We had two group projects this module: GameTime and Weathrly. Weathrly had used the map array prototype and I liked being able to finally apply array prototypes to get data that I wanted. Weathry was very challenging because we were just introduced to react. I did not feel as though I had comprehended every code I wrote. 

### GameTime
* **Partner:** Sabrina Kennedy
* **Game:** Breakout
* **Functional Expectations:** 3+
* **User Interface:** 3+
* **Testing/Code Sanitation:** 3+
* **JS Style:** 3+
* **Workflow:** 3+

GameTime was fun because we were building a game. It started out very challenging to me because I had to brush up on my ES5 at the same time making sense of ES6. At first, I couldn't relate the two. I spent the first two days of GameTime researching every aspect of canvas it seemed like.

### Weathrly
* **Partner:** Steven Lawson
* **Spec Adherence:** 
* **User Interface:** 
* **HTML Style:** 
* **CSS/Sass Style:** 
* **JS/React Style:** 
* **Testing:** 
* **Workflow:** 
* **Code Sanitation:** 

Weathrly was the most challenging project of this mod. I think it was because we were just introduced to react but I also had to learn to work with a partner with a complete different style of learning. We had a couple hiccups at the start but soon got settled into a routine. 

## C: Professional Skills

* **PD Sessions:**
  * Agile Practices & Leadership
  * Feedback II
  * Feedback III
  * Storytelling II
  * Outreach & Networking

These sessions help me prepare myself for what to expect after Turing. It points out aspects of life that I have never thought of before for example 'our life story'. I did not know there was a more catching way to present my life story and it is something I should work on for job interviews and to interact with others in general. 

* **Gear Up Sessions:**
  * Gear Up 1: Empathy & Privilege
  * Gear Up 2: Parable of the Polygon/Automation/Group Think
  * Gear Up 3: Case Study with Mod 4

I find gear up to be very enlightening. I think Turing establishes a very empathic and caring community. It is worlds apart from my background in the medical field where it is mainly competitive. Turing teaches corporation. Having these talks and conversations creates an envoirnment where we're able to talk about the hard things, work together, and understand each other's difference. I think it is very good to continue talking about these topics with the new generation of developers. 

## Community Participation

I went to a lot of the Iron FEs, turing mothers, and JCS events. I also went to demo night and paired with mod 1 students. I enjoyed all of these events. Pairing with mod 1 was fun because I saw different ways of writing code that I have never thought of. Turing moves so fast that we are rarely able to reflect on our old projects and this was one way to do so. It also made me feel better because while I'm struggling in mod 2, I was able to answer questions from mod 1. It shows that I'm actually learing something. 

## Final Assessment

I plan on doing some react videos that were sent to me by my mentor. I plan on attempting to react a couple projects from mod 1 in react just to farther understand react and also to see if I can. I'm nervous about next inning but then again, I'm always nervous. I plan on relaxing over intermission week so I can hit it hard when we come back.

# Outcome:
Promoted to Mod 3
