# Ngoc Phan - M1 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

What did you set out to accomplish this module?

I entered this module with no understanding of what coding really is. I had no previous experience in HTML, CSS OR Javascript. I wanted to learn as much as I could during the mod, stay afloat, and see if this career path is really for me. I found that even during the most stressful of times, I really do enjoy coding. I was able to gain a new family here at Turing. I was able to learn enough to help others which solidified my understanding of the topic in which I enjoyed. To improve for next mod, I would like continue my strigent and disciplined schedule of staying late on the weekdays and coming in on the weekends so I keep my stress level. I would also like to incorporate working out into my schedule.   

## Rubric Scores

* **A: End-of-Module Assessment**: X
* **B: Individual Work & Projects**: X
* **C: Group Work & Projects**: X
* **D: Professional Skills**: X
* **E: Community Participation**: X

-----------------------

## A: End of Module Assessment

(Indicate whether you passed or failed the end of module assessment)


## B: Individual Work & Projects

Individual projects included Number Guesser, the first project, and three static  compositions that were spread over the course of mod 1. I used the static comps to find my strengths and weaknesses on design as a software developer. I enjoyed the ability to integrate my own designs into the statics comps while staying true to the overall comp.

#### (Number Guesser)

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/nphan24/number-guesser)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/number-guesser.html)

(description) Number Guesser was the first project where I learned to integrate HTML, CSS and JS in one. The user is instructed to enter a guess between 1-100. They guess untill they get the right answer, then they can move on to the next level. We were able to add a function where the user can set their own range. 

Evaluator: Pamela Lovett

(evaluation comments) Notes/What To Work On:
LOVE how excited you are about programming - keep it up!

DESIGN
Great job making sure that everything is lining up
Stays true to the spirit of the comp

HTML
Fix spacing
Keep using semantic HTML
Push forward with ARIA w/labels, lang attribute

CSS
Use Idiomatic CSS for organization

JS
Some opportunites for refactoring

Functional Expectations
Proficient: Application meets all of the expectations of phase three.

(evaluation scores)

COMP RECREATION / DESIGN
Advanced Beginner
Proficient

HTML
Advanced Beginner
Proficient

CSS
Advanced Beginner

JS/jQuery
Advanced Beginner
Proficient

#### (Static Comp 1)

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/nphan24/np-comp-challenge-1)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/m1-static-comp-1.html)

(description) I learned a lot doing static comp 1. Responsive came easy to me for this project which was a life-save. I loved adding my own designs. 

#### (Static Comp 2)

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/nphan24/np-comp-challenge-2)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/m1-static-comp-2.html)

(description) This comp did not turn out very well for me. I learned I did not use enough containers. I went down a rabbit hole with the height so when it was crushed, contents spilled out of the containers. Keeping this in mind, I improved my plan of action to remedy this problem for static comp 3. 

#### (Static Comp 3)

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/nphan24/np-comp-challenge-3)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/m1-static-comp-3.html)

(description) This comp was a huge jump in difficulty from the two previous comps. It was so detailed that given the time restraint I couldn't incorporate much of my own design. I used this opportunity to practice the different units of measure in CSS and improve on my deficiencies from the previous static comp. 

## C: Group Work & Projects

### Projects

(Intro) Group projects included Linked List, Ideabox and 2DoBox. Projects were done in pairs. They were a great opportunity to learn how to code, git/github workflow, deal with conflicts and how to work with another developer. 

#### (Linked List)

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/nphan24/linked-list)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/linked-list.html)

(description) Linked List was a good introduction to making dynamic elements. It was our first paired project. I was happy Sabrina and I decided to use vanilla javascript for this project. It was wonderfun pairing with her because she was able to answer most of the questions I had and helped clarified anything I was struggling on. I was able to learn the git/github work flow, driver-navigator pairing and how to work with another on a coding project. 

Evaluator: Pamela Lovett

(evaluation comments) Notes/What To Work On:

OVERVIEW
YAY for getting through all of Phase III AND writing easy-to-follow vanilla JS!!!

DESIGN
Links not redirecting on cards
Give users error messaging to indicate that both fields must be submitted in order to make a card. Also - syntax error on Line 66 allows edge cases where cards can be created without both fields completed
Pretty responsive! Mobile is too big... minor adjustments on sizing there and fiddling with the header throughout. Err on the side of being nit-picky

HTML
Good indendation and spacing. YAY for ARIA, alt, labels. Add a lang attribute to HTML
Looks good overall

CSS
YAY for idiomatic CSS!!!
Totally okay to use reset or normalize files even though we hadn't covered these topics before this project launched -- would highly recommend using them. This helps you avoid declarations where you are undoing base default styles... also increases cross-browser compatibility

JS
Love that you used vanilla JS for this project to solidify your learning!!!
Most of the naming looks good - readySecondaryButtons threw me off initially, though
Good use of paramenters/arguments to avoid some global vars
Good job breaking apart functionality

GIT/GITHUB
Like that you are using branches to work on features.
Capitalize first letter in commits. Stay concise and descriptive with commit descriptions

Functional Expectations
Proficient: Application meets all of the functional expectations in Phase Three.

(evaluation scores)

COMP RECREATION / DESIGN
Proficient

HTML
Proficient
Exceptional

CSS
Proficient

JS/jQuery
Proficient

GIT & GITHUB
Advanced Beginner
Proficient

Pairing/Collaboration
Proficient

(feedback to me) (Partner: Sabrina Kennedy)

“Ngoc, We did a great job on linked-list. I loved that we stuck with working on vanilla javascript for this project even when we got stuck on some problems that would have been easier using Jquery. I appreciated that any problem we worked on if you did not fully understand it, you asked questions before we moved on in the project. I think we did a great job making sure that the code was equally ours and that we both contributed equally. The only thing I would say we should work on for next time is creating pull request that are more specific towards the features we were working on, and getting more comfortable with working with git and pull request. We rocked this project!!!”

#### (Ideabox)

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/nphan24/idea-box)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/ideabox.html)

(description) IdeaBox introduced local Storage, objects and constructor functions. This was a hard project for me. I had to pair often. 

Evaluator: David Whitaker

(evaluation comments)Notes/What To Work On:

COMP
content should not get bigger as page becomes smaller, try going mobile first next time

HTML
use aria-label instead of aria-labelledby check out this article: https://dev.opera.com/articles/ux-accessibility-aria-label/#accessible-name-calculation

CSS
consider organizational comments and using bem
set base font family and font-weight on a html element and override where necessary

JS
pull duplicate blocks into functions and pass whatever is dynamic as an argument
love that you used a constructor function and especially a method on the prototype!!!
use more abstractional naming, ie. Idea instead of NewCard

GIT/GITHUB
get into habit of writing as much as you can within a commit message in 30 seconds or so. Verbosity is key!

Functional Expectations
Exceptional The application meets all of the requirements listed above and implements one or more of the extensions.

(evaluation scores)

HTML

Accessibility

Advanced Beginner Leverages more precise semantic tags when applicable, and employs basic ARIA roles attributes for added clarity in structure, descriptive image alt attributes, title attributes for applicable anchor tags.
Proficient Employs detailed accessibility practices throughout markup, especially in forms and can speak to decisions made in accessibility choices as it relates to specific accessibility concerns.

Style

Proficient Crafts lean, efficient markup that is easy to read and follow across naming conventions, structure, and solid formatting that follows industry best practices.

CSS

Structure of Code

Advanced Beginner Can cleanly and logically organize CSS rules according to similar categories (i.e. typography, layout, components), and then logically organize the remaining CSS rules based on flow of the markup. Organizes properties within rules alphabetically.
Proficient Leverages cascading styles and CSS specificity rules to create more complex targeting of elements in order to reduce, reuse, share styles across elements. Organizes properties within rules based upon industry standard principles of writing consistent, idiomatic CSS.

Implementation

Advanced Beginner Can articulate the differences between the approaches of absolute/relative positioning, flex-box, floats, and can appropriately apply the approaches to solve a variety of layout problems.
Proficient Develops layouts that work cross-browser, are responsive, and can logically defend the choices made in implementation approach for layout.

JAVASCRIPT

Data Types

Proficient Can identify and track data types through any variety of functions, understanding their affect and result on each line of code. Knows which scenarios are better suited for objects vs. arrays and employs them accordingly.

Conditional Logic

Proficient Can use an if/esle statement to effectively handle multiple paths through the code. Writes if/else statements that only have one level of logic (no nesting). Can use logical operators instead of if/else statements where applicable.

Functions & Scope

Advanced Beginner Developer is comfortable using multiple arguments to pass data into functions. Understands how variables are scoped at the function level and global level. Functions are named descriptively. Knows when and why to use return in a function.
Proficient Functions have single responsibility. The entirety of the function is easy to read what functionality it contains. Function is generally shorter than 8 lines. Uses functions to eliminate repeated code. Comfortable refactoring any piece of code and extracting it to a function.

Arrays

Advanced Beginner Can modify arrays by adding or removing specific elements - uses array methods such as push or shift. Can use a for loop to iterate through array.

Objects & Prototypes

Proficient Can use object prototypes. Can articulate the definition and the “why” of an object prototype - the best use cases for prototypes.
Exceptional Can identify and apply best use cases for constructor functions vs object literals in their code, and leverages more advanced object prototype methods.

DOM Manipulation

Proficient Able to extract information, modify attributes, or append/prepend data in the DOM easily regardless of whether they are employing vanilla JavaScript or jQuery. Understands how to harness event bubbling.

Style

Proficient Code is logically organized, such that reader can easily follow the progression of the app because variable and function names are descriptive and follow a single responsibility approach. There are no major bugs and minimal duplication.

GIT & GITHUB

Git

Novice Can use commits and can articulate what a commit is and why we use them. Makes large, infrequent commits directly to master branch.

Advanced Beginner Can create branches and willingly attempts to incorporate branches into their workflow. Commits, while infrequent, are increased in volume and show improvements in description.

Proficient Commits changes frequently with detailed commit messages. Uses feature branches to keep master branch free of incomplete features or bugs.

Exceptional Knows how to reset to previous commits, rebase large sets of small commits, if applicable, and other advanced Git maneuvers. Github

Novice Can articulate what GitHub is, how it is different from Git, and why it is important. Can comfortably push and/or pull changes from master.

Advanced Beginner Can execute basic pull requests with context about changes in description. Can keep local and GitHub repositories in sync.

Proficient Is comfortable with resolving merge conflicts. Asks for review/merge of their pull requests from teammates. Is comfortable editing code based on review feedback from a pull request and resubmitting the branch code.

Exceptional Uses issues as resource for project management. There are comments on specific lines of pull requests with discussion about the implementation.

DESIGN

Comp Recreation

Proficient Developer captures the spirit and design intent of the comp. Some small details need polish to achieve a pixel-perfect match to the comp, but developer is clearly mindful of details and has made a conscious and careful effort to match the comp. Any design decisions left open to interpretation are handled thoughtfully and are well executed, but are more noticeable and/or unintuitive than they would be if the designer had provided the solution, or may not be totally seamless during screen-size transitions.

PAIRING

Collaboration

Proficient Can diplomatically handle issues that arise between the pair through respectful, focused, targeted feedback and implement changes to positively adapt the working relationship and keep the project on track. Can effectively implement tactics to support their partner’s learning and project goals, while also honoring their own personal learning and project goals, should the two be different or at different levels due to skill delta.
Exceptional Pair collaboration and communication is exceptional, with the distribution of work being equal and balanced, and both partners experiencing a good working flow, able to handle stress, deadlines, issues with calm and focused demeanor.

(feedback to me) (Partner: Hannah Bare)

“Ngoc- it was great working with you for this project. I appreciated our collaboration and communication throughout the project and staying focused and motivated. It was a good experience for me! I felt like I learned a lot going through our logic problems and figuring out what worked and why. I’m thankful that I was able to share my anxiety issues with you from the very beginning. There were times when I believe you were joking, but I wasn’t sure of the intent. Specifically a comment you made to me “to not freak out”.  It might be something to consider in the future as I was able to shake it off, but others might not be able to do that. It was great to laugh and work with you to accomplish our set goals. Thanks for a great week!

#### (2DoBox)

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/nphan24/2DoBox-Pivot)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/2DoBox-Pivot-Mod1.html)

(description) 2DoBox is a pivot from ideaBox. We were given code from another group and had to finish all functionalities from the last program as well as pivot it into a to do list. We learned how to refractor better in this project. 

Evaluator: Louisa Barrett

(evaluation comments)

(evaluation scores)

(feedback to me) (Partner: Jared Eklin)

We did a great job working together. We were excellent at managing our schedules and communicating about them and it allowed us to complete the project well ahead of schedule. I also thought we did an excellent job of evenly splitting the driver/nav duties. I thought your ability to reach out and ask for help when we were stuck on a feature was invaluable. It’s an area that I have been trying to improve in and feel I gained a great deal from those interactions. In the future it would be wise for both of us to practice better git flow and increase our number of commits.  I was very satisfied with the outcome, especially not stressing since we had it done early. Look forward to working together in the future.

## D: Professional Skills
(Intro)- Turing produces well-rounded developers. The ability to code well is only one portion of becoming a good developer. The gear-up session and reflections are below.

### Gear Up

#### (Session Name)- Growth Mindset

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/47b936ce64782229a4338512818b5388e0e70f8d/Growth_Mindset_Facilitator_Guide.markdown)

This is the first time I heard about fixed vs. growth mindset. I was about to walk out the door because I categoriezed myself as a fixed mindsetted person. I'm happy I did not and came to appreciate Turing adopting and teaching growth mindset. I find that it is a state of mind you choose but cannot always have. 

#### (Session Name)- Introverts/Extroverts

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/m1_citizenship/session_3_intro_extro_ambivert_styles.markdown)

My main takeaway here is introverts and extroverts get their energies from different places. They have their own strengths and weaknesses and not one is better than the other. 

#### (Session Name)- Dealing with Stress

These two sessions were very valuable to us Turing students. The Turing timeline is very fast and there is no doubt that students experience a lot of stress. This is a good session in teaching forms of stress relievers as well as how to identify their stress.

#### (Session Name)- Fixed vs. Growth Mindset

This gear-up was ran by mod-4 students. I chose to participate in it because it hit home with me the first time I heard about it. I first time I heard about it, I definitely imagined myself as a fixed-mindset person. I was contemplating walking out the door. I found that over time being at Turing, I have made great strides towards growth mindset. 

## E: Community Participation

### Playing a Part

As a noobie in this mod, I was able to participate in a couple groups. I participated in the Joan Clark Society, Imposter meetings and demo nights. I love the demo nights. I plan on helping new students as best I can moving forward and answer as many questions as possible. I had gotten a lot of help from mod 2 students and planning on continuing that to give back. I will continue to participate in JCS and Imposters meetings. 

------------------

## Final Review

### Notes

( Leave blanks for reviewers )

### Outcome

( Leave blanks for reviewers )