# First Last - M2 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

What did you set out to accomplish this module? Were you successful?
  -I wanted to improve my GitHub workflow, technical skills, focus, endurance, use of text editor and of course
  understand and utilize all curriculum of the mod.  I succeeded in all the goals I had going into the mod.  I feel comfortable using GitHub(branching, pulling, pushing, merge conflicts, etc.) now, and my technical skills have improved from mod 1.  I am able to work harder and longer now and my use of my
  text editor has also improved.  As far as curriculum for this mod I feel that I understand well the setup of a rails app,
  the MVC model as well as creating controllers, models, routes setting up relationships and validations.  I understand RSpec well and use it to guide me through the creation of an app.

What did you struggle most with this module? What did you learn from that struggle?
  -I initially struggled with all of the above.  After the mid mod things began to click and I feel that I have made positive
  progress since that point.  I struggled with seeing things for the first time which is why some Friday challenges did not go
  so well.  But after we had learned all the material and I was able to go over and redo the challenges I was able to reproduce
  them and similar apps from scratch.  Where my weaknesses still lie are in ActiveRecord and SQL.  I feel that if I go through
  them with help I am able to complete and understand it but when I try a couple days later to do new problems my retention on
  those topics is poor.  I am a visual learner so I believe that's why AR and SQL are hard for me since chaining many methods together is hard to conceptualize and visualize in your head.  I plan on working through some SQL on a website that visualizes the tables over the break in hopes to improve in these areas.  I also want to improve my ability to discuss my code.  I find it hard to verbalize the work I have done and speak technically.

## Blog

Link your blog post here. Include a short description of your topic (one sentence is fine).
  https://medium.com/@sschwartz214/step-by-step-guide-on-how-to-use-materialize-in-your-ruby-on-rails-app-18c607924ae4

  I made a guide on how to set up and use Materialize which is a front end framework in a Rails app.

## ActiveRecord Obstacle Course

Link your finished ActiveRecord Obstacle Course here.
https://github.com/SSchwartz214/storedom-5

Was this helpful for practicing ActiveRecord?
-Yes but I still find it hard when needing to use it on other projects with different tables.

## Projects

What were your favorite projects this module? Least favorite? Why?
-Job Tracker, Rails Mini and Bike Share were my favorite.  Job Tracker because it was the first project to utilize Rails so
I got to see its power.  Rails mini was fun because we had a choice of what to make and I chose GifGenerator so I got to
use Gifs.  BikeShare was a good learning experience because we had to analyze a lot of data and learned well how to interact with the database.  It was also a good learning experience in team work.  My group had a very organized a diligent work flow.
My least favorite was Little Shops because it was unfamiliar and Sinatra isn't as intuitive as Rails.

What did you learn from your independent projects?
-I learned CRUD functionality, routes and using Bootstrap well from the Rails Mini.

What did you learn from your paired projects?
-How to properly use custom routes, flash messages, delete confirmations, active record, using a project management tool
like Waffle to delegate tasks, and using GitHub with multiple people.

## Community

How did you contribute to the Turing community this module?
-I attended the Demo Night at WeWork

What would you like to do to contribute next module?
-Attend SAB events and go to Demo Nights

## Self-Assessment Scores

Fill in how you would grade yourself from 1-4 in the following categories this module.

| Category                     | Score |
| -----------------------------| ----- |
| **Individual Projects**      |   2   |
| **Group Projects**           |   3   |
| **Professional Development** |   3   |
| **Community**                |   3   |
| **Final Written**            |   4   |
| **Final Timed**              |   3   |
