# (Nick Chambers) - (M1) Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis
I wanted to code every day and become proficient with CSS, HTML, as well as Javascript and its various abstractions. When I wrote my goals out for module one, I was confused and instead wrote out my goals for the entire seven month program. I was surpised when I looked back yesterday at them and realized I had accomplished many after only six weeks (holey moley!). I've become comfortable with many big picture programming concepts, proficient with syntax in a variety of languages,  . Even though I didn't end up coding every single day of the module, I would go to sleep thinking about code, dream about code, and wake up thinking about it. The  sheer amount of knowledge that I've gained in the past six weeks has made me feel almost superhuman and has been very empowering. 

## Rubric Scores

* **A: End-of-Module Assessment**: 3
* **B: Individual Work & Projects**: 3+
* **C: Group Work & Projects**: 3+
* **D: Professional Skills**: Skip
* **E: Feedback & Community Participation**: 3+

-----------------------

## A: End of Module Assessment
Progression/Completion
"Bravo on the collaboration Nick! And great job not letting your typos frazzle you. Excellent at thinking through the pieces step-by-step, and kudos to you for testing your code along the way."

JavaScript Style: 3
Workflow: 3
Collaboration: 3

## B: Individual Work & Projects

#### (Color Changer)
Color Changer was our only solo project during this module. We had to build a program that featured two buttons - one to generate a random background color for the window that was not white and another to reset the page's background to white. We were given a lovely CSS spec to go by, and we had to make the page responsive to mobile and other window sizes. 

* [https://github.com/nnchambs/color-changer-solo]
* [https://nnchambs.github.io/color-changer-solo/]
* [Original Assignment]()


## C: Group Work & Projects

### Projects

The big pairing projects during module 1 defined my experience thus far. They all required new styles of problem solving  and had increasingly complicated layers. The module culminated with Game Time, which was an expansive educational odyssey that I'm still processing and recovering from. 

#### (Number Guesser)

* [https://github.com/gprocell927/number-guesser-1]()
* [http://frontend.turing.io/projects/number-guesser.html]()

Number Guesser was our first project for mod1 using good old fashioned Javascript, as well as HTML and CSS. It was our first taste of DOM manipulation and seemed like just enough work to get into the project mindset without drowning. It's a simple program where the user has to guess a number between 1 and 100 generated by the computer, with various outcomes if they don't enter a number or if they guess correctly. 

Functional Expectations : 3
Fundamental JavaScript Style : 2

From Gabi -  "I feel that our time spent pairing on Number Guesser went fantastically. Nick did a great job with communicating with me about his learning goals, and he kept a great attitude for the entirety of our work time. Things for Nick to work on would be to continue pseudocoding when developing ideas, as this seems to help him shape his direction while coding. Again, I had a great experience working with you, and keep up the great work!" 

#### (Linked Lists)

* [https://github.com/lrknaff/linked-lists]()
* [Original Assignment]()

Linked Lists is a simple bookmarking tool where the user can input a URL and title for a bookmark. We built it using jQuery, Javascript, and HTML/CSS.

Functional Expectations: 4
Fundamental JavaScript Style: 3
Workflow: 2
HTML Style:3
CSS Style: 2

From Lacey: "I had an awesome time working with Nick on Linked Lists. He's a great team player and has an infectious positive attitude, even in times of stress. He consistently does pulse checks in the group to re-DTR and make sure every one is feeling good about workflow and process. He's is an adept developer that brought a lot of skills to the team and is a confident problem solver. Hoping we can work together again in future projects!"

#### (Ideabox)

* [https://github.com/nnchambs/ideabox()
* [http://frontend.turing.io/projects/number-guesser.html]()

Ideabox is a "simple" tool that takes the user input (the title of an idea and the idea itself) and sets it to both local storage and the DOM. Once it's in the DOM, the user can edit the quality, title, and body of the idea, in addition to be able to search through ideas. This project was a hardcore experience, but I ended up rewriting it and learning tons. After finally implementing all required functionality, I feel super comfortable with all the concepts used in the project and feel triumphant. 

Specification Adherence: 2 
User Interface: 3.5 
JavaScript Style: 2.5 
Workflow: 3.5 

From Chaz: "During Mod 1 Nick and I ended up working together on the `Ideabox` assignment, which proved to be quite the task. Over the week that we had the assignment, which included a weekend, we spent much time at `The Blakement` attempting to solve logical puzzles via JS. Sadly, I wasn’t much help outside of the HTML & CSS realm, but Nick did his best to keep me in the game mentally, explaining the complexities of the code we were writing, and providing great insight during our Driver/Navigator sessions. Nick’s positive attitude towards grasping concepts still foreign to us, as well as his patience in regards to my understanding of exactly what we were attempting to do, was critical during our time together. His dedication to submitting not only a good product, but one that is fully functional is a testament to his overall work ethic. Future classmates who pair with Nick will benefit greatly from their time with Nick, and I look forward to working with him again in the future."

#### (Game Time)

* [https://github.com/kswhyte/game-time]()
* [http://frontend.turing.io/projects/game-time.html]()

Kinan and I built our version of Breakout, Papaya Whipper. It carries on the tradition started by Jeff Duke and Casey Metz of paying humble tribute to the great colors of the internet. 
(evaluation comments)

Functional Expectations: 3+ 
User Interface: 4 
Testing: 3+ 
JavaScript Style: 3 
Workflow: 4
Code Sanitation: 4

From Kinan: "During the times we worked together during this module, especially during our biggest project,  Nick has held a great attitude during times of high stress, a very important quality during the development process. It has been a great joy working with him, as he is  eager to learn and able to remain focused at each problem at hand. We were able to achieve a the exact kind of workflow needed for dealing with high-levels of abstraction and difficult implementation of ideas. Overall, I can say Nick will be an asset to any team he ends up on and look forward to our future collaboration during Turing!"


## E: Feedback and Community Participation

### Giving Feedback

For Lacey Knaff: "Lacey and I worked together on the Linked Lists project. I had a very positive experience collaborating with her and was super impressed by her code researching skills, creative problem solving, and CSS style wizardry. In addition to having an extremely keen eye for design, Lacey seemed to always be able to dig up some solution to our problems with her Google searches. She's a clear communicator, a highly engaged collaborator, and I think she's going to be a kick-ass developer."

For Gabi Procell: "My project (Number Guesser) with Gabi went smoothly, and I felt grateful to have such an enjoyable experience during my first project at Turing. Gabi communicated clearly about her time constraints, work style, and technical strengths. Since she had gone through Mod 1 of the back-end program, I looked to her to lead us through the big picture workflow, and she was especially generous with her knowledge about Git. As we were coming close to achieving "level 4" functionality, we were both on the same page with wanting perfect our Javascript and wracked our brains trying to figure out how to implement the final touches. I'm proud of how much effort we put into the project and how smoothly it felt to work with a solid partner. I learned a lot from working with Gabi during out first project, and hopefully we can work again in the future."

For Kinan: "Kinan and I tackled the formiddable Game Time project and built our version of the Breakout arcade game, "Papaya Whipper". Kinan was a terrific partner with an eye for detail, strong and clear communication, and " 

For Chaz: "Chaz and I worked together on Ideabox, and we shared what ended up being the most difficult challenge of module one together. Chaz had an amazingly positive attitude and a willingness to go all in on the project. While he was admittedly still working to grasp some fundamentals of Javascript, Chaz never hesitated to give 100% and do whatever he could to help tackle the problem at hand. He easily and quickly managed all the CSS styling for the project and was also a great communicator. I felt like we were always on the same page. We spent tons of time talking through the problems Ideabox presented and tried to break them into manageable pieces. Looking back, I wish we would have been more proactive with seeking help from instructors and module two students earlier in the process. Ideabox presented us with a large amount of both conceptual and technical challenges and there's no person who I would have rather gone through that experience with."

### Being a Community Member

"Nick is a great classmate. He is always positive and helpful when you have a question." - Adam Rice

"Though Nick has been a member of Pahlka posse for just one module, he's already one of our core members. I've appreciated his dedication to attending our meetings and weekend work parties, even though they are never at his cohort's classroom location. I'm glad we have him on our team, and look forward to seeing what great ideas he'll bring us from the front-end." - Tommasina Miller, Pahlka Posse Student Leader 

### Playing a Part

Pahlka Posse: 
I had fun working with the Pahlka posse this module, and I'm psyched to be moving forward on our projects.

Turing: 
I love this shit and am excited to pair with mod1 students next module.

------------------

## Final Review

### Notes

( Leave blanks for reviewers )

### Outcome

PASS
