# First Last - M2 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

What did you set out to accomplish this module? Were you successful?

  * My goal this module was to design and build web applications using Rails. I'm happy to say that I built not one but three applications using the Rails framework (JobTracker, GifGenerator, and Little Shop) -- woot! I'm proud of each and every one of these projects as they reflect the time and energy I've spent to learn the MVC model, HTTP request/response cycle, SQL statements, Bootstrap, and more. When I take a step back and look at these projects altogether, though, I'm surprised at my visible progress. From the completion of one project to the start of another, my recent projects have started to look like "real-world" applications. To know that I've accomplished this much in 12 short weeks... I'm really grateful to Turing for pushing me this far.
  * I still have a long way to go, though, and I am not the programmer I want to be yet. I hope to maintain this rate of progress and have just as much to say for this question towards the end of module 3.

What did you struggle most with this module? What did you learn from that struggle?

  * I struggled with following through with what I said I would do. I've been telling myself to pick up vim, learn JavaScript, create applications with HTML & CSS and not rely on Bootstrap, but I have yet to accomplish these things. I've learned that although I'm good at following through with assignments set by other people, I'm terrible at executing my own assignments.

## Projects

What were your favorite projects this module? Least favorite? Why?

  * I enjoyed every project I worked on this module.
  * BikeShare was great because I learned a lot about Sinatra, ActiveRecord, and SQL statements. It was a pleasure working with Dan, Aaron, and Sam N. It's thanks to this project that our relationship has grown from being 'cohortmates' to 'friends'.
  * JobTracker was my first hands-on experience with Bootstrap and truly understanding how params worked.
  * GifGenerator was neat because it was my first time working with an API.
  * I think the best project thus far has been Little Shop because it's allowed me to exercise everything I've learned not only this module but last module as well.

What did you learn from your independent projects?
  * **That anything is possible.** If I have a vision, for example, my application should have a specific feature or should look a certain way, as long as I am resourceful, patient, and willing to ask for help, it's definitely possible to create an application that matches my vision.

What did you learn from your paired projects?
  * I learned that I'm not a good teacher and that this is something I need to work on. I tend to code instinctually, meaning, I code what I think makes sense and feels right. Therefore, when I'm pairing, I realize I don't interact with my partner enough. I'd like to exercise 'conscious pairing', meaning, being constantly aware that I have a partner next to me and making sure we are both on the same page.

## Community

What was your favorite Gear Up? Least favorite? Why?
  * The Johari window was my favorite gear up. It was really nice to know what other people who've worked with me thought of me.
  * There were no least favorite Gear Ups. They were all good.

How did you contribute to the Turing community this module?
  * I joined the Joan Clarke Society committee.
  * I continued my term as the 1706 SAB Rep.
  * I held a spike and live coded Reunion to mod 1 students (9/16)
  * I helped mod 1 students with their projects (Credit Check/Battleship/Black Thursday)
  * I TA'd a Try Coding event and was also a part of the panel.

What would you like to do to contribute next module?
  * Pair with more students.

## Self-Assessment Scores

Fill in how you would grade yourself from 1-4 in the following categories this module.

| Category                     | Score |
| -----------------------------| ----- |
| **Individual Projects**      |   4   |
| **Group Projects**           |   3   |
| **Professional Development** |   3   |
| **Community**                |   4   |
| **Final Written**            |   3   |
| **Final Timed**              |   4   |
