# First Last - M1 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

**What did you set out to accomplish this module? Were you successful?**

I set out to learn how to code. Specifically, I wanted to become familiar with Ruby syntax and style and test-driven development. My goal by the end of this module was to create a functional, interactive program with Ruby. Since starting module 1, I've learned how to enumerate through `hashes` and `arrays`, create `classes` and `modules`, debug my code with `pry`, commit my work to Github, and more. I've created a Battleship game, an autocomplete program, and an ORM. I've exceeded my own expectations for this module and look forward to setting new goals for module 2.

**What did you struggle most with this module? What did you learn from that struggle?**

I struggled most with myself -- specifically taking care of myself. Starting week 2, I began to cut back on sleep to work on projects. I eventually gained sleep debt and my time studying and working became less productive. Starting week 5, I noticed my performance dropping and knew I had to change my habits. I've since overcome this struggle by taking more breaks in-between coding and sleeping at least six hours a day.

## Projects

**What were your favorite projects this module? Least favorite? Why?**

Every project assigned this module was my favorite. I struggled in different ways with each project and at the same time, always learned something new. With Date Night, I learned how to build a binary search tree and traverse the data structure. With Complete Me, I learned how to work with a Trie data structure. Battleship was my first introduction to REPL. Through this project, I also learned how to use a module. Black Thursday was the project where everything 'clicked' for me (especially how to "pass up" information from the child class to its parent class - very cool!). I'm glad I was given the opportunity to work on these projects. Each have contributed to my growth as a programmer today.

**What did you learn from your independent projects?**

I learned how to seek out help and not be afraid to ask for help if I was stuck.

**What did you learn from your paired projects?**

I learned to not only be patient but also to be empathetic towards others.

## Community

**What was your favorite Gear Up? Least favorite? Why?**

My favorite gear-up session was _Code: Debugging the Gender Gap_. I really enjoyed watching the documentary and engaging in a productive dialogue regarding the gender gap in tech with my peers.

My least favorite gear-up session was _Dealing with Difference: Introvert vs. Extrovert_.

**How did you contribute to the Turing community this module?**

I joined the Student Advisory Board and made sure mod 1 students' voices were heard regarding their experience at Turing.

**What would you like to do to contribute next module?**

I would like to participate in Demo Night.

## Self-Assessment Scores

Fill in how you would grade yourself from 1-4 in the following categories this module.

| Category                     | Score |
| -----------------------------| ----- |
| **Individual Projects**      |   3   |
| **Group Projects**           |   3   |
| **Professional Development** |   3   |
| **Community**                |   3   |
| **Pentathlon**               |   3   |
