# Mimi Le - M3 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

What did you set out to accomplish this module?

  * Become more proficient in ActiveRecord and SQL (Rails Engine)
  * Move away from Bootstrap and design an app with HTML, CSS and JavaScript (ReBook) 
  * Construct a multi-tenacy authorization app (The Pivot)
  * Develop and test secure internal APIs using Rails (The Pivot)
  * Build my personal project (ReBook)
  * Re-construct a simplified version of the website’s existing UI using their own API
  * Learn how to use background workers and increase an application's performance
  * Primarily use Vim.

## Self-Assessment

| Section | Category | Score |
| --- | ----- | --- |
| A | **End-of-Module Assessment** | 3 |
| B | **Individual Work & Projects** | 3 |
| C | **Group Projects** | 3 |
| D | **Professional Development** | 3 |
| E | **Feedback & Community Participation** | 3 |

  * This mod was both fustrating and rewarding at the same time. Although going through it was stressful, now that it's over, I appreciate every moment of it. Through this mod, I learned how to consume and integrate third-party APIs, use intermediate/advance ActiveRecord and SQL statements, authenticate and secure my own APIs using JSON web tokens, allow users to retrieve their password through a two factor authentication service, design an app's UI using just HTML, CSS and some JavaScript, and more.

-----------------------

## A: Individual Work & Projects

**[APIcurious](http://backend.turing.io/module3/projects/apicurious) (Optional)**
Description

  * For APIcurious, I re-constructed a simplified version of Github's UI using their own API.

Takeaways:

  * I really enjoyed working on this project and had a lot of fun emulating Github's UI.

**[Self Directed](http://backend.turing.io/module3/projects/self_directed_project)**
Description:

  * For ReBook, I built a book subscription service integrating and consuming Goodreads, Stripe, and Google's OAuth API.

Takeaways:

  * This project made me realize how difficult it is to build an Amazon-like website in a week and a half. Haha!
  * Since this was a self-directed project, I had a lot of big features I wanted to implement and realized how hard it was to a) do it on my own and b) in a short amount of time.
  * In the end, I'm super proud with the app's UI and user experience. I put a lot of time and effort in the design and am happy with the way it turned out. I was also able to implement all the features I had set out to accomplish, for example: a user can sign up for a trial run; once the trial run is over, a user is on a subscription plan that charges them $9.99 at the end of their plan period; a user can check out a book and view their checkout history; and more.

## B: Group Work & Projects

> **[Rales Engine](http://backend.turing.io/module3/projects/rails_engine)**
Description:

  * An API that allows users to query metadata and perform business analytics. The return format for all endpoints is JSON.

Takeaways:

  * I learned so much about SQL and ActiveRecord because of this project. I also enjoyed working with Mike.

> **[The Pivot](http://backend.turing.io/module3/projects/the_pivot)**
Description:

  * A multi-tenancy web application integrating Google's OAuth 2.0 protocol and Twilio's two factor authentication service. Users can also acquire a JSON web token to access the API for business

Takeaways
  
  * This was an extremely hard project. Through this project, I learned how to work on a brownfield project. I've started to think about the future consequences of my code -- Can other people aside from myself understand this code? Is this code in need of refactoring? Will this project produce any technical debt? I'm a lot more mindful of the code I produce now because of this project.

| CATEGORY | Rales Engine | Self Directed | The Pivot |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **Github Repo** | [Rales Repo](https://) | [Cloney 1 Repo](https://) | [Cloney 2 Repo](https://) |
| **Heroku** | [Rales](https://) | [Self Directed](https://) | [The Pivot](https://) |
| **Functional/Client Expectations** | 4 | 4 | 3 |
| **TDD** | 3 | 3 | 3 |
| **Code Organization/Quality** | 4 | 3 | 3 |
| **API Design** | 4 | N/A | N/A |
| **Queries** | 4 | N/A | N/A |

> Rales Engine evaluation comments:
\<Instructor Comments Here>

> Cloney Island Sprint 1 evaluation comments:
\<Instructor Comments Here>

> Cloney Island Sprint 2 evaluation comments:
\<Instructor Comments Here>

## C. **Gear Ups**

> [Link To Gear Up]()
\<3-4 sentences summarizing your takeaways, including things you're continuing to think about, things you learned, things you're doing differently for each gear up>

## D: Community Participation

#### **Community Contribution Option**
  * I led a lightning talk two weeks ago during Wrap Up on snowboarding.
  * I led a spike to mod 1 students.

#### **Playing a Part**

How else you've contributed to the community

  * I'm happy I had the opportunity to pay it forward this mod. I paired with a couple mod 1 and 2 students, joined the Joan Clarke Society committee, and did a lightning talk during wrap up.

------------------

## Final Review

> #### Notes ( Leave blank for reviewers )

> #### Outcome ( Leave blank for reviewers )
