# Joe Perry - Module 4 Portfolio


## Individual

#### Your Mission

Module 4 was a very exciting time because it's the first time we've 'officially' transitioned into learning and using a language other than Ruby. My mission for module 4 was to make sure I successfully applied the basic coding principles and good practices, such as separation of responsibility and testing, that we learned in Ruby to a new language.


## Projects

A list of all module 4 project scores.


### GameTime

Building a NodeJS game based on agar.io using websockets to deliver a real-time multiplayer experience.

Project Link: https://github.com/jwperry/gametime

Production Link: http://faux-gar.herokuapp.com/

Teammates: James Crockett, Justin Pease

Reviewed by: Steve Kinney & Romeeka Gayhart

#### Scores:

#### Instructor Feedback

- Points: (base 300)

340 / 300

#### Playability Features

All present and then some

#### Extensions

- MultiPlayer - 10
- Websockets - 20
- Canvas Expansion - 20

#### Functional Expectations

35 points - Application is fully playable and exceeds the expecations set by instructors

#### User Interface

15 points - The application is pleasant, logical, and easy to use. There no holes in functionality and the application stands on it own to be used by the instructor without guidance from the developer.

#### Testing

30 points - Project has a running test suite that exercises the application at multiple levels. The test suite convers almost all aspects of the application and uses mocks and stubs when appropriate.

#### JavaScript Style

25 points - Application is thoughtfully put together with some duplication and no major bugs. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code is doing.

#### Workflow

25 points - The developer effectively uses Git branches and many small, atomic commits that document the evolution of their application.

#### The output from JSHint shows…

10 points - Five or fewer complaints


### Scale Up

Building an application based on the MacOS Notes app with a React front end that interacts with the file system via Electron.

Project Link: https://github.com/jwperry/nodepad

Teammates: Brenna Martenson

Reviewed by: Steve Kinney & Romeeka Gayhart

#### Scores:

- Points: (base 150)

150 / 150


### RealTime

Creating a basic version of StrawPoll to allow a user to generate a poll that displays results with real time updates.

Project Link: https://github.com/jwperry/real-time

Production Link: https://realtime-turing-jp.herokuapp.com/

Reviewed by: Steve Kinney & Romeeka Gayhart

#### Scores:

- Points: (base 200)

109 / 200


## Community


#### Giving Feedback

1510 - James Crockett

GameTime was, for me, by far the best project I worked on at Turing, and I can safely say that it would not have been a success without Jamie. Every pairing experience I’ve had at Turing has been positive, but I really feel that we had an exceptional rapport and synergy on this project. We tackled a lot of difficult challenges and extensions, and Jamie brought a lot of energy to the team. He very quickly grasped and drove the implementation of our websockets, and was heavily involved in every aspect of the production app. Jamie’s enthusiasm really inspired me as well, and thanks to his input, we achieved many things that we expected to have to “wishlist” before the midway point of the project. He also has a particular gift for refactoring, and helped me clean up a lot of the code for our most important features. I have no doubt that Jamie is going to be a great success wherever he winds up after Turing, not only because he is a strong coder, but because he is a great person and team member. I can’t wait to see what he manages to achieve in the coming months.


1510 - Justin Pease

Having the opportunity to work with Justin on the GameTime project was a true pleasure. This was the first time we got to really spend a lot of time working on something together, and he showed himself to be an unrelentingly positive and constructive team member. Justin faced an additional challenge on this project as he joined our group ~3 days in when Jamie and I had already constructed part of the codebase. He managed to get caught up and still tackle new and interesting challenges with us (websockets in particular!). I almost feel as though Justin may have undervalued his contribution to the project since he had to learn the existing code at first, but I can safely say it would not have succeeded without his input. Justin also excels at working in a team environment, and does a great job of communicating and making sure the whole group is on the same page. He should definitely be proud of his ample contributions, and I’d love to have the opportunity to work with him again!


1510 - Brenna Martenson

I had the pleasure of working with Brenna on the ScaleUp project and couldn’t have asked for a better partner. Brenna is incredibly easy to work with, and is perpetually friendly, positive, and helpful. Brenna is also amazing with styling and CSS, but I sometimes feel as though she has more confidence in her prowess on front-end work than in her formidable back-end skills. She showed an exceptional ability to adapt to new tools and technologies as she very quickly grasped React and Electron, as well as how to properly structure our project to take advantage of them. I definitely learned a lot working with her, and have no doubt that she will be extremely successful wherever she lands after Turing!


#### Receiving Feedback

1510 - James Crockett

I end up saying this about someone different every module, but JP was probably my favorite person to work with at Turing. His drive to figure out complex problems and implement cool features is motivating, and his insistence that we could and would figure out how to implement certain features lead to the project I'm most proud of from my whole Turing experience. For someone that can sometimes hop on the express train and pump out features and fixes overnight, JP is also one of the easiest people to work with in a group. He's sharp yet humble, focused yet good-humored, and relaxed yet organized (I've never seen anybody waffle like JP waffles). Constructively, I don't have much for JP. Occasionally it would be challenging to come back together as a group and find he had gone pretty far ahead into a certain feature, but he was great at explaining his code and without those instances we wouldn't have accomplished as much as we did, so I feel those situations benefited us more than anything else. I'd just encourage JP to keep up the optimism and keep pushing beyond the limits others aren't sure they can surpass.


1510 - Justin Pease

JP was great to work with during the Game Time project.  It was incredible watching him and Jamie take off with their ability to absorb and use the advanced javascript methods we learned in class.  JP also took on an extension that was very challenging and knocked it out of the park.  I was definitely getting behind in the project but he was very patient helping to get me caught up with the complex things he implemented.  He was incredibly easy to work with.  I really can’t offer a lot of negative feedback because I didn’t see any.  On a personal level, he is a very kind person but I think he could do more to share himself with the people around him.  I need to take the exact same advice but he is a pretty cool guy and I think people would really benefit from his friendship.


1510 - Brenna Martenson

TBA


#### Playing a Part

I've participated in the larger Turing Community in the following ways:

* Have participated in weekly Lunch Roulettes and have taken initiative to create Slack channels to begin dialogue.
* Have spent significant amounts of time pairing with new students. I remain interested in helping incoming module 1 students in particular as it both helps me to keep my Ruby skills sharp and helps them to develop a strong foundation.
* Have assisted with weekly workspace cleanup with 1510 cohort.
* Have attended weekly lightning talks and student-led sessions.
* Contributed a lightning talk covering basic setup of WebSockets showing code used in our GameTime project.
* Spear-headed efforts to pull together Turing students and recent graduates to play Heroes of the Storm together!
* Helped Brant move. That totally counts.


# Portfolio Rubric

Your portfolio will be evaluated using the following rubric. Earning at least
a three in each category is the baseline for promotion/graduation.

## A: End-of-Module Assessment

A Turing student is able to demonstrate proficiency at programming in accordance
with the module's content and expectations.

* 4: Student achieved two or more "4s" on the assessment
* 3: Student achieved a "3" or better on each category of the assessment || excused from assessment
* 2: Student earned one score below "3" on the assessment
* 1: Student earned two or more scores below "3" on the assessment

## B: Individual Work & Projects

A Turing student works to maximize their skill growth and demonstrates
that skill across a variety of work.

* 4: Student demonstrates excellent growth by not only achieving satisfactory
evaluations for each project but also pushing their learning beyond expectations.
* 3: Student demonstrates commitment and growth in their work through satisfactory
evaluations of each project or a clearly upward-sloping trend.
* 2: Student demonstrates some lack of engagement or growth in their individual
skill or project outcomes without a clear upward trend.
* 1: Student does not show the commitment expected of Turing students.

## C: Group Work & Projects

A Turing student contributes significantly to group projects, helps the team
develop their technical skills, and delivers a high-quality product.

* 4: Student consistently helps their teammates be their best selves, learn at
an accelerated pace, and achieve great results.
* 3: Student fully participates in their group work to facilitate group harmony
while achieving consistently satisfactory results.
* 2: Student participates somewhat in their group work but is either not a
dependable member of the team or achieves consistently sub-par work.
* 1: Student is not a valuable member of their teams.

## D: Community Participation

A Turing student builds up the community around them by participating and
supporting other students, the larger Turing family, and persons outside our
walls who want to develop their own skills.

* 4: Student has a significant positive impact on the learning and spirit of the
people around them.
* 3: Student participates in required activities and does at least one or two
above-and-beyond supports of the community.
* 2: Student participates in most required community activities (demos, lightning talks, etc)
but does not do anything else of significance.
* 1: Student stays in their lane and focuses just on their own learning.

## E: Peer & Instructor Feedback

A Turing student accelerates the growth of those around
them by delivering specific, kind, and actionable feedback. They accelerate their
own growth by taking in and acting on the feedback of their peers and instructors.

* 4: Student helps others to be their best selves while using peer feedback
to shape their own character and behavior.
* 3: Student consistently delivers meaningful feedback for peers and implements
strategies to improve themselves in response to feedback.
* 2: Student gives meaningful impact to peers as well as being aware of themes
in the feedback they receive.
* 1: Student does not consistently participate in or construct meaningful peer
feedback.
