# Francy Lang - M2 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

My focus for this mod was on being able to articulate my learning. Last mod I did a lot of absorbing, but this mod I worked on communicating the concepts. Pairing with mod1 students has been helpful in solidifying my knowledge from mod1. I have made an effort to speak-up more in class and ask questions in order to continuously clarify my understanding. Throughout my projects I prioritized being able to write and explain my code, over just trying to get things done. 

## Rubric Scores

* **A: End-of-Module Assessment**: PASS
* **B: Individual Work & Projects**: PASS
* **C: Group Work & Projects**: PASS
* **D: Professional Skills**: Yes
* **E: Community Participation**: Yes

-----------------------

## A: End of Module Assessment

PASSED

## B: Individual Work & Projects

#### Sorting Suite

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/francylang/sorting-suite)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/sorting-suite.html)

PASS

#### Complete Me


* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/francylang/complete-me)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/complete-me.html)

# Instructor Evaluation Points: Complete-me
# Instructor: Nathaniel
# Comments:
### 1. Fundamental JavaScript & Style

* 3:  Application shows strong effort towards organization, content, and refactoring

### 2. Test-Driven Development

* 3.5: Application is well tested but does not balance isolation and integration tests, using only the data necessary to test the functionality

### 3. Encapsulation / Breaking Logic into Components

* 3.5: Application effectively breaks logical components apart but breaks the principle of SRP

### 4. Functional Expectations

* 3: Application meets all requirements as laid out per the specification.

### 5. Code Sanitation

The output from ESLint shows…

* 4 - Zero complaints


## C: Group Work & Projects

### Projects

#### Game Time

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/turingschool/front-end-submissions-public/blob/master/1706/mod-2/gametime/francy_john.md)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/game-time.html)

# Instructor Evaluation Points: Game Time
# Instructor: Leta
# Comments:
  * Need parent class (good implementation after eval)
  * Testing could be more robust; not just testing that function exists but that function runs as expected
  * Get rid of anonymous numbers :) Utilize parameters to reduce redundancy
  * Nice workflow and good interface
## Functional Expectations
* 3 - Application is fully playable without crashes or bugs
### User Interface
* 3.5 - The application has many strong pages/interactions, but a few holes in lesser-used functionality.
### Testing
* 3 - Project has a running test suite that tests multiple levels but fails to cover some features. All functionality is covered by tests. The application makes some use of integration testing.
### JavaScript Style
* 3 - Application is thoughtfully put together with some duplication and no major bugs. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code is doing.
### Workflow
* 3 - The developer makes a series of small, atomic commits that document the evolution of their application. There are no formatting issues in the code base.
### Code Sanitation
The output from JSHint shows…
* 4 - Zero complaints

#### Weathrly

* [GitHub URL]()
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/weathrly.html)

# Instructor Evaluation Points: Weathrly
# Instructor: Nathaniel
## Specification Adherence
* 3 - The application consists of one page with all of the major functionality being provided by React. No approach was taken that is counter to the spirit of the project and its learning goals. There are no features missing from above that make the application feel incomplete or hard to use.
### User Interface
* 3.5 - The application has many strong pages/interactions, but a few holes in lesser-used functionality. The application less than 3 aXe-core violations
### HTML Style
* 3: Developer solves structural problems with a balance between conciseness and clarity. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code and every tag and selector is doing.
### CSS/Sass Style
* 3.5: Application is thoughtfully put together with some duplication and no major bugs. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of CSS/Sass is doing.
### JavaScript / React Style
* 3- Application is thoughtfully put together with some duplication and no major bugs. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code is doing. Application has at least 6 components built out.
### Testing
* 3 - Project has a running test suite that tests and multiple levels but fails to cover some features. All functionality is covered by tests. The application makes some use of feature testing.
### Workflow
* 3 - The developer makes a series of small, atomic commits that document the evolution of their application. There are no formatting issues in the code base.
### Code Sanitation
The output from a code sanitizer (either JSHint or ESLint) shows…
* 4 - Zero complaints

## D: Professional Skills

### Gear Up Reflections

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/turingschool/career-development-curriculum/blob/master/deliverable_submissions/1706-f/francy_lang.md)

## E: Community Participation

### Playing a Part
I love being a member of the Turing community. I have served as an SAB representative for the last 2 mods, I regularly attend the Joan Clarke Society meetings, I go to Iron-FE twice a week, and I paired with mod1 students. I would like to continue to focus on making sure all members of my cohort feel valued and included in our community. 

## Final Review

### Notes

Great Job!!!

### Outcome

Pass!
