# First Last - M1 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

What did you set out to accomplish this module? Were you successful?

My main goal for this module was to get familiar with an OOP language like Ruby. I have been really familiar with C++ and Javascript for a few years now, in addition to HTML/CSS, and so I wanted to start building the foundation to bring my understanding to the next level. Now that I can actual look at Ruby and know what it is doing, along with now being able to look at JS/C++ with a much better understanding (for real this feels surreal), I have hit my goal with aplomb.

What did you struggle most with this module? What did you learn from that struggle?

I struggled the most with coding cold for our assessments. As much as I know OOP/Ruby, I have not been able to successfully demonstrate that at the level I know I am at, and so because of that, I have suffered in that regard. However, the fact that I can even write code on a blank piece of paper now is a tremendous feat, and I now know how I can keep augmenting that skill for years to come.

## Projects

What were your favorite projects this module? Least favorite? Why?

My favorite module was Jungle Beats, since it was really awesome to hear the linked list I made said back to me. That whole auditorial feedback really helped solidify my understanding of Ruby as a whole. My least favorite was Black Thursday, simply because of the obligation that I had to work around, in addition to having to work on it while being tested day after day after day.

What did you learn from your independent projects?

I learned how I can learn Ruby on my own. The fact that I am now familiar enough with the language to be able to explore my own creativity is awesome. For example, I have started working with vibrating motors and an Arduino board with Ruby to create a moving parts. So cool, and I can explore that kind of stuff now that I am so confident with the language.

What did you learn from your paired projects?

From my paired project, complete me, the biggest take away for me was realizing that I have a long ways to go in helping others/teaching/assisting others with code. I still struggle with the correct nomenclature, and still am trying to get familiar with seeing other students code, and so when they ask for help I flop. Similar to my past tutoring experience, however, I know/believe that I will be really good at this soon, and this has started to come to fruition over the last few days of this mod.

## Community

What was your favorite Gear Up? Least favorite? Why?

My favorite gear up was resilience, since for example, just this past week, due to an obligation I absolutely could not miss, I had to miss a few days of class. I was told that this will be hard, and will be even harder, since I had requested to work on our final project by myself, because I did not want to encumber a fellow student in my class because of an obligation I needed to be at. Because of this, I have been the picture definition of resilience, since I am taking the situation I have and am balancing around working hard, while keeping up with my own health.

My deadlines are fast approaching, but my resilience is insatiable. Though I missed the actual talk, this gear up will stick with me forever. It is my new favorite word in addition to empathy now.

How did you contribute to the Turing community this module?

In addition to helping out students when they would ask me questions (and vice versa), I volunteered with Rachel Warbelow for a high school website lesson, where we taught two groups of students (each in one 90 minute session) how to build a website through codepen and copy the files to github so that they could have a github webpage they could take home after that session. It solidified what I want to do after I learn more about programming, which is helping young kids get started with it. It is something I wish I had before I went to college, since it would have made me realize sooner just how much I really like this stuff.

What would you like to do to contribute next module?

If I make it to the next module, I would love to go to Ellen Mary Hickmann's high school event that I already asked to be apart of. Because I can't financially afford to repeat a module, I am hoping I can at least move on to Mod 2 so I can be apart of that, because that other event I was a part of was so much fun with Rachel. I would also like to start flexing my creativity and participate in demo nights, because I feel much more confident in showing off my code now.

## Self-Assessment Scores

Fill in how you would grade yourself from 1-4 in the following categories this module.

| Category                     | Score |
| -----------------------------| ----- |
| **Individual Projects**      |   4   |
| **Group Projects**           |   3   |
| **Professional Development** |   4   |
| **Community**                |   3   |
| **Pentathlon**               |   3   |
