# Cole Hall -  M3 Portfolio

## Individual

### Areas of Emphasis

At the beginning of this module, my goal was to improve at Rails.  With a lot
of hard work and grit, I am now able to build rails apps using MVC
architecture, take in data through an API and manipulate it, expose data as an
API so others can query it. Since I was repeating the module, I knew I had to
work extra hard.  I paired with mentors 4 hours weekly to ensure that
all my questions were answered.  My mentors have been instrumental in helping me
to be successful this module.

### End of Module Assessment

* Ruby Syntax and Style 3
* Rails API 2.5
* Testing 2 (I spoke with a mentor about the reason I got a 2 on testing. In my
  controller tests I only asserted the statuses but Josh said tests should
  have also asserted changes in data.  My mentor suggested I push back on the
  score because in the real world, people get mad at you for putting assertions
  other than statuses in controller tests.)
* Progress and Completion 2
* Workflow 4  


### Work

I am including API curious in my portfolio to offset low scores on RailsEngine.
My RailsEngine project passed the test harness locally but when Josh cloned it
and did the rake tasks, the project broke because I had made changes to the
schema after my initial import of the csv's. I don't feel the scores of the
project reflect the work I produced. Some projects were evaluated on the local
machines of the students and if mine had been one of them the outcome would have
been different.  I'm not trying to complain that Turing is not fair.  But I
ask that my API Curios project, which I'm very proud of, replace the Rails
Engine project.

I'm proud of the API Curious project because last module I was not able to complete
the functionality using the Twitter API and Gem.  This time I used the GitHub
API and the Faraday gem.  During the project, I improved at making requests to
various endpoints and writing methods to retrieve the proper data.  This was a better
experience over using the Twitter gem, which obscured the requests to endpoints.
I missed an opportunity to learn because work was being done behind-the-scenes
with the Twitter gem.  I'm glad I got the chance to do it again and learn how to
send requests to endpoints by reading the API's documentation.

#### GitHubToo

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/NicoleHall/Github-Too)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/lesson_plans/blob/master/ruby_03-professional_rails_applications/apicurious.md)

Description:

In this project, I am focusing on consuming and working with data from the public GitHub API. GitHubToo is a vehicle for learning important skills such as:

Authenticating with credentials used with a third-party application. To do this i use the OAuth protocol and the OmniAuth Gem
Making GET requests to API endpoints
Parsing the response body to pull out desired pieces of information
GitHubToo will rely on test-driven-development. Tests are written using Minitest

The user of the Github Too app see the following information produced from GitHub response bodies:

* Profile Picture.  
* Number of starred repos.  
* Count of followers.  
* List of followers and the associated GitHub profiles for those followers.  
* Count of followed users.  
* List of the past 10 commits for the repo most recently pushed to GitHub.  
* List of recent commit messages from followed users.  
* List of organizations.  
* List of all repositories.  
* The user of the GitHub Too app will see the following information produced from screen-scraping using the Nokogiri Gem.  

* Contributions in the last year
* Longest streak
* Current Streak
* To simulate an on-the-job experience of working for a client, each feature was overseen by a Turing staff member playing the role of a client. Development of features were based on client requests and feedback.

Waffle.io was used as the project management too to facilitate agile development

evaluation comments: From Lovisa
  "Nicole and I did an evaluation of the project to get official scores for her portfolio. The project meets all the base requirements. The project works in development and production and has a good user experience."

evaluation scores:
Completion 3.
Organization 3.
Test-Driven-Development 4.
Code Quality 2.5.
User Experience 3.

#### Individual Project

Ear-Buddies is the coolest thing I've worked on here at Turing.  I really like
the freedom of building my own app with features I designed.  I've loved
every part of this project.  I was just looking at my wireframes that I sketched
up two weeks ago when the app did not exist.  Today I deployed the app to heroku
and I was really impressed with myself.  I was able to take some sketches and
turn them into a functioning web app that allows users to create podcast playlists
based on subject and listen to the podcasts throught the app.

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/NicoleHall/Ear-Buddies)
* [Production App](https://earbuddies.herokuapp.com/)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/lesson_plans/blob/master/ruby_03-professional_rails_applications/self_directed_project.md)

Scores TBD

## Team

### Projects

I did the Pivot with Beth and Brenna. Bees-And-Beets focused on taking an existing e-commerce app that sold artwork from a single artist and transformed the existing code from a single store into a multi-tenancy farmers market to support multiple sellers and admins specific for each store. My team had strong focus on pairing, collaboration and work-flow aided by Waffle.io and Github

#### (Bees And Beets)

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/NicoleHall/Farmers-Market-Pivot)
* [Production App](https://bees-and-beets.herokuapp.com/)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/lesson_plans/blob/master/ruby_03-professional_rails_applications/the_pivot.md)


### Scores

#### Client Scores

* Completion: 3: Team completed all the user stories and requirements set by the client.
* Organization: 4: Team used a project management tool and updated their progress in real-time.
* User Experience: 4: Project exhibits a production-ready and polished UX.
* Extensions: 2+: Developers attempted to implement extensions using technologies not covered in class but it did not result in a delivered feature.

#### Technical Scores

* Test-Driven Development: 4
* Code Quality: 3
* Git Workflow: 4

## Feedback from Jeff Ruane:
"I think a couple of things stand out after pairing over the past module. First of all, I think you've found some confidence that maybe you didn't have before, and you seem much more willing to jump into a project and tackle problems you run into one at a time, as opposed to getting overwhelmed when running into an issue, and that's really great to see. I remember you were having issues with VCR last module (maybe in December or something), and you just seemed so overwhelmed, but I didn't see that at all this module. You're a good developer, you just need to believe that, and I've seen a lot of growth on that front this module. I've also seen growth when it comes to debugging and a willingness to follow the errors, and dive into the stack trace to see where something is going wrong, and that's been great to see as well. And, of course, as always, you're a pleasure to work with. You make people laugh, you're easy to get along with and talk to, and in general you're a good friend. Overall, really great work this module."

## Feedback from Matt Ewell
"I got the opportunity to pair with Cole on her personal project and she asked me for some portfolio feedback. I'd say the first feedback is that she was willing to work with me right then and there.. I asked her about her project, she told me, I offered to pair, and then we dove in.

Second, her app was in pretty good shape, and she knew what she was trying to do. She was at a point where she'd appropriately structured the models and associations, had configured external API integrations, and was moving on to linking the user-initiated call to the API with local storage and presentation.

I thought it was a smooth pairing session. We both typed at times, and she guided the architecture of the app. I gave my opinions, but we went the direction that she wanted to go. I think she showed good understanding of the things I was suggesting.

I think Cole already knows what to work on, but in my experience at Turing, it's always a triage situation-- what to work on now, and what to sacrifice to hopefully return to later. To give something specific, I'd say focus on testing could be increased.

I'm working with two other relatively inexperienced developers who started the same day I did, and one thing that I think separates me (and any other Turing grad) from them is my comfort and desire to test.

This session really helped me stay connected as I'm in a new place, and of course I loved the coding and the company. Thanks again and good luck with the rest of the project."


## Community
* Attended BuiltInBrews on Feb 25 at Fortrust Data Center.
* Member of Joan Clarke Society.  
* Member of LGBTuring.  
* Member of Imposters Club.  

### Giving Feedback

feedback from me to Brenna:
"Brenna, you did a good job with front end styling and css animation! Bees and Beets Looked great b/c of your hard work and diligence. You could be a little more verbal about how design works and to use materialize in order to educate me a little bit more. But I fully understand that you like to ‘go into the zone’ and put headphones on and crank it out. Whatever team you join in your professional career will be lucky to have you."

Feedback from me to Beth Secor:
"Beth, you did a good job being a collaborative team member and really helped me to learn more about rails and a multitency e-comm app. But you could do a better job of addressing interpersonal concerns prior to the conclusion of a project in order to ensure that your needs are met."

### Being a Community Member
* Organized the design and production of Joan Clarke Society tee-shirts which were
delivered earlier this module.  
* Refilled all the soap containers in the bathrooms

### Playing a Part

* I made a lot of new friends when I joined 1510. Because I repeated, many 1510
students asked me questions about the module and I was happy to answer and
give them advice based on my previous experience.

* On Feb 26 I gave a Lightning Talk about the Antikythera Mechanism.  Students
seemed to like it because people keep asking me questions about it weeks after
the presentation.


### Protocol

Blog Post From Protocol:
[Blog Post](https://medium.com/@ColeHall/turing-versus-bootcamp-af778c1b5e1b#.9p3vqcp87)

PR requested at Protocol
[PR](https://github.com/NicoleHall/Ear-Buddies/pull/19)

Effective Readme requested at Protocol
[ReadMe](https://github.com/NicoleHall/Github-Too)

### Posse Challenge
[Goldberg Posse](https://github.com/weilandia/goldberg_posse_challenges)

## Review

### Notes

## A: End-of-Module Assessment

* 2: Student earned one score below "3" on the assessment

## B: Individual Work & Projects

* 3: Student demonstrates commitment and growth in their work through satisfactory
evaluations of each project or a clearly upward-sloping trend.

## C: Group Work & Projects

* 3: Student fully participates in their group work to facilitate group harmony
while achieving consistently satisfactory results.

## D: Community Participation

* 4: Student has a significant positive impact on the learning and spirit of the
people around them.

## E: Peer & Instructor Feedback

* 3: Student consistently delivers meaningful feedback for peers and implements
strategies to improve themselves in response to feedback.

### Outcome

( Leave blanks for reviewers )
