# B4 Portfolio Template

## Area of Emphasis

What do you want to focus on this inning? What do you hope to accomplish by graduation?
- Javascript, Jquery, React, Node. and other frontend skills.

## Assessment

Include your final outcome (pass/fail) and a reflection based on answering the following questions:
- pass

* What was your biggest technical challenge?
- Capstone.  I had to learn react, deal with two different apps, and work with different file formats, etc.

* What did you like the most about the challenge?
- It's fun that we feel that we can learn anything at this point.

* How did you solve that challenge? What was your approach?
- With my capstone I tried to learn as much as I could from docs, other people at Turing, etc.  I didn't solve all of the challenges so I think I felt short there but I have something that I am proud of and doesn't look like shit (quite an improvement for a backend student!).  

* What did you learn?
- We really can learn anything at this point.  We still have to put in the work but the foundation of our technical skills is strong.

## Quantified Self

Include a reflection answering the following questions:

* What was your biggest technical challenge?
- Getting everything to work with the github viewer and the heroku seeding process.  

* How did you solve that challenge? What was your approach?
- Both Will R and I checked the docs and kept trying new ideas.

* What did you like the most about the challenge?
It seemed like most of these issues were things that would be useful in the future, especially learning to seed on heroku with a node backend.

* What are three technical concepts you learned during this project?
JS, AJAX, jQuery, Node.js, Express, JS objects and classes, MVC in node, ES6, Mocha, Chai, and more.  

* If you could change one thing about your technical approach, what would it be and why?
Be testing the github page and the heroku backend earlier.  

* What was the experience like working with a pair while learning something new?
I had a great partner so it was easy.  Both of us felt pretty good about the concepts so it was a great experience and we helped each other when we needed more explination.  

## Capstone Project

Include a reflection answering the following questions:

* What was your biggest technical challenge?
Getting downloads to work properly.

* How did you solve that challenge? What was your approach?
In the end, I used a shortcut but it isn't a good long term solution.  I have many ideas but they will have to wait while I deal with the rest of turing.  

* What did you like the most about the challenge?
It was fun to learn React.  I really like frontend technology and I am exicited I picked it up so quickly.  

* What are three technical concepts you learned during this project?
React, dealing with a seperate front end and back end, and doing authenticated API calls.  

## Feedback

What's one piece of meaningful feedback you received during B4? What have you done or going to do regarding this feedback?
When the instructors were upset at the class over QS I tried to think about it from their perspective and not just the students perspective.  

## Gear Up

Write a reflection about the process of planning/revising a Gear Up session and facilitating the session. Did you enjoy the experience? What was challenging? What was most rewarding?
Planning a gear up was interesting.  I know that our group often had conflicting ideas on how to do things but in the end we had a gear up that was a part of what we all wanted and it went off without a hitch.  I asked people after and they thought it was one of the most fun mod4 gear ups they went to so I think the feedback should be pretty positive.  

## Community Involvement

How else did you give back to the community this inning? Why do you think this is a required part of the Turing experience?
I helped folks in my posse.  I helped folks in Mod4.  I am taking unused cell phones of my classmates and handing them out to poor folks in Ecuador when I leave right after Turing.  I also did the code fair even though I didn't want to be because I thought it would be good to show the lower Mod students some of the cool things you can do with Golang.  I am also doing demo night even though I think my app isn't that impressive.  

## Going Forward

What three skills (professional and/or technical) are you going to take forward with you during your next job post-Turing?
I like the Turing work ethic, ability to project manage and the ability to troubleshoot.  All three will serve me well moving forward.

## Professional Development

* Link to 30-day post-grad job search action plan using [this template](https://github.com/turingschool/career-development-curriculum/blob/master/module_four/post_grad_plan.md): 
https://gist.github.com/bretfunk/ff3a65bc4d748a66f651e0f0cac3be19
* Prepare a summarized version of your professional story to share during the portfolio review. This is a 1-2 minute sharing highlighting who you are, why you are in software, and what's next in your career.
I LOVE talking about myself so this will be no issue :)
* Prepare and share your Turing story during week six.
Here is a link to my rough draft: https://gist.github.com/bretfunk/63440b31e6643c1b5c81bba134886326  
