# \<Your Name> - M3 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

> \<What did you set out to accomplish this module?>
I wanted to hone my programming basics and learn APIs and building more advanced Rails apps.  

## Self-Assessment

| Section | Category | Score |
| --- | ----- | --- |
| A | **End-of-Module Assessment** | 4 |
| B | **Individual Work & Projects** | 4 |
| C | **Group Projects** | 4 |
| D | **Professional Development** | 4 |
| E | **Feedback & Community Participation** | 3 |

>* \<Takeaways, your experience>
Mod3 was my favorite mod and also my easiest mod.  I felt that everything really clicked this mod.  Flight school was similar, I felt that my private pilots license (year one) was challenging but by the time I got to commercial (year three) everything clicked.  I think that comes from doing alot of the projects over and over until I couldn't get them wrong.   
>* \<Notes>

-----------------------

## A: Individual Work & Projects (Optional)

> **[APIcurious](http://backend.turing.io/module3/projects/apicurious)**
>* \<Description>
Make a Github viewer using Oauth and github APIs.  
>* \<Takeaways, your experience>
I really liked this project, felt I did very well and even did a post request from my app just for fun.  This will stay on my resume even if it isn't the prettiest.  

## B: Group Work & Projects

> **[Rales Engine](http://backend.turing.io/module3/projects/rails_engine)**
>* \<Description>
Make an internal API and use ActiveRecord for biz intel queries.  
>* \<Takeaways, your experience>
This was the only project I wasn't 100% proud of.  I think a combination of personal issues took a toll on my work.  That and I had made the seed file wrong and it was throwing off all of our tests (they would work in RSpec but not in the spec file).
> **[Cloney Island](http://backend.turing.io/module3/projects/cloney_island/cloney_island)**
> **[Cloney Island Sprint 1](https://)**
>* \<Description>
We made a Twitch clone with a custom chat and a feature that displayed the current chatroom's mood (of actual Twitch users) using the Watson API.
>* \<Takeaways, your experience>
This was super fun.  I had a great group of great coders and we aimed big.  We want to demo it if it looks good enough.  During the project I moved, had my car stolen, had my car found, and other issues but the project didn't suffer which tells you how great of a project this was.  

> **[Cloney Island Sprint 2](https://)**
>* \<Description>
Take a project from last Mod3 students (Clonely Island Travel) and improve it.  
>* \<Takeaways, your experience>
It was interesting working on someone elses code.  I tried to work around it and did all of the Oauths, Heroku integration and ActionJobs and Action Mailers.  I was proud of my work and thought it ended up looking pretty great.  
| CATEGORY | Rales Engine | Cloney Island 1 | Cloney Island 2 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **Github Repo** | [Rales Repo](https://github.com/bretfunk/rails_engine) | [Cloney 1 Repo](https://github.com/bretfunk/palpit8) | [Cloney 2 Repo](https://github.com/markyv18/SQUEEE) |
| **Heroku** | [Rales](https://) | [Cloney 1](https://palpit8.herokuapp.com/) | [Cloney 2](https://palpit8.herokuapp.com/) |
| **Functional/Client Expectations** | 1 | 4 | X |
| **TDD** | 3 | 3(+1) | X |
| **Code Organization/Quality** | 3 | 4 | X |
| **API Design** | 3 | N/A | N/A |
| **Queries** | 2.5 | N/A | N/A |

> Rales Engine evaluation comments:
22 failures but most of the pieces are in place for success
Nice use of serializers
Asked them to take another look at spec harness and test coverage.

> Cloney Island Sprint 1 evaluation comments:
N/A

> Cloney Island Sprint 2 evaluation comments:
\<Instructor Comments Here>

## C. **Gear Ups**

> [Link To Gear Up]()
\<3-4 sentences summarizing your takeaways, including things you're continuing to think about, things you learned, things you're doing differently for each gear up>
MicroAggressions
https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/microaggressions_original.markdown
I thought this was a good topic handeled well by Sal.  The article we read was weird, though.  A girl was 'triggered' when people complimented her English, since she moved to the US when she was 17.  As someone who has lived in many foreign lands I am shocked that someone would feel this way.  I am delighted when people compliment my langauge abilities if they detect an accent.  Chantal complimented my Spanish that morning and I was flattered!  To each their own, I suppose.  

Groupthink
Think for yourself.  I think identity is impossible to avoid, I think the trick is to have as many identities as possible by having alot of experiences.  I have a Richard Feynman sticker on my computer to remind me to always be myself.  

The Robots Are Coming
The thing I learned the most was how much faith my class had into our government handling this properly.  I don't know what the future holds but I would bet money it will be regulated improperly.  

## D: Community Participation

#### **Community Contribution Option**
The first posse of this Mod I lead the class on basic API stuff using my rails-engine for the Lovelace posse.  Mod4 students reviewed my code as I walked through it.  The whole class partiipated.  

#### **Posse**
  >* \<Blurb about what you did with your posse over the module>
  My posse rarely showed up but when they did it was mostly homework time.  I taught FE students about APIs and they taught me about JS.  
  >* \<Your favorite thing about the posse experience>
  I didn't get much out of it, honestly.  I like talking with Mod4 students but they were barely there.  
  >* \<How has your posse experience helped you grow as a professional?>
  It has not.  

#### **Playing a Part**

> \<How else you've contributed to the community>
I helped Mike move during the mod.  And went to Nawlins alot with my classmates.  I tried to be helpful to students who were having a hard time too.  I also interviewed at a company and tried to get Matt DeVoe a job there too since I was going to decline.  Fingers crossed.  

------------------

## Final Review

> #### Notes ( Leave blank for reviewers )

#### Outcome

Promoted
