# Lee Chow - M3 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

> I wanted to feel comfortable consuming and building RESTful APIs. I also wanted to continue with a online machine learning course (Coursera, Andrew Ng) that I've been working on. 

## Self-Assessment

| Section | Category | Score |
| --- | ----- | --- |
| A | **End-of-Module Assessment** | 3 |
| B | **Individual Work & Projects** | 3 |
| C | **Group Projects** | 3 |
| D | **Professional Development** | 3 |
| E | **Feedback & Community Participation** | 3 |

>* Overall, I thought it was a great module. I liked how Josh, Lauren, and Sal focused on getting us job ready. I really enjoyed them sharing their work experiences. It was great to learn about things we would likely see on the job (multitenancy, caching strategies, background workers, etc.)


-----------------------

## A: Individual Work & Projects

> **[APIcurious](http://backend.turing.io/module3/projects/apicurious) (Optional)**
>* It was good getting used to Omniauth and the OAuth process with GitHub. It was good exposure to how to consume and API, and then later how to do this by breaking logic in Services, Presenters, Decorators.

> **[Self Directed](http://backend.turing.io/module3/projects/self_directed_project)**
>* I really enjoyed building on my Parkinson's project from Mod 2. It actually gave me more practice with a "brownfield" project as I had to fix bugs and change the schema significantly. I also was able to build a simple Flask API in order to use scikit-learn and its machine learning modules. I was proud of that, and it was cool to see that I could learn the basics of another framework in another language. It was also cool to apply what I've been learning in the machine learning course to a problem. For next steps, I would like to try some caching strategies to optimize the app. Even further down the road, maybe building a front end in VueJS, and seeing how this could be deployed as a cell phone application. 

## B: Group Work & Projects

> **[Rales Engine](http://backend.turing.io/module3/projects/rails_engine)**
>* It was great working with Lauren on this. Learned a lot about building an API but keeping it RESTful. Also good practice with more complex SQL queries, and using ActiveModel Serializers. 

> **[The Pivot](http://backend.turing.io/module3/projects/the_pivot)**
>* Haha, probably my least favorite project initially, but great practice in digging through an exisiting codebase. As it moved further on it was enjoyable to figure out some jQuery and AJAX on my own. Our team worked great together, was a pleasure working with these guys. 

| CATEGORY | Rales Engine | Self Directed | The Pivot |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **Github Repo** | [Rales Repo](https://) | [Cloney 1 Repo](https://) | [Cloney 2 Repo](https://) |
| **Heroku** | [Rales](https://) | [Self Directed](https://) | [The Pivot](https://) |
| **Functional/Client Expectations** | X | X | X |
| **TDD** | X | X | X |
| **Code Organization/Quality** | X | X | X |
| **API Design** | X | N/A | N/A |
| **Queries** | X | N/A | N/A |

> Rales Engine evaluation comments:
\<Instructor Comments Here>

> Cloney Island Sprint 1 evaluation comments:
\<Instructor Comments Here>

> Cloney Island Sprint 2 evaluation comments:
\<Instructor Comments Here>

## C. **Gear Ups**

> [Link To Gear Up]()
\<3-4 sentences summarizing your takeaways, including things you're continuing to think about, things you learned, things you're doing differently for each gear up>

## D: Community Participation

#### **Community Contribution Option**
>* \<Link &/or blurb about the option you chose (blog post, lead a spike or posse, lightning talk, open source contribution or pair > 3 times)>

#### **Posse**
  >* \<Blurb about what you did with your posse over the module>
  >* \<Your favorite thing about the posse experience>
  >* \<How has your posse experience helped you grow as a professional?>

#### **Playing a Part**

> \<How else you've contributed to the community>

------------------

## Final Review

> #### Notes ( Leave blank for reviewers )

> #### Outcome ( Leave blank for reviewers )
