Anthony Ciccone - (M1) Portfolio

***Areas of Emphasis***
* My goal for this mod was to pass every project by getting a 3 or 4 in each section. I also wanted to get a strong understanding of how classes interact with each other. At the same time, I needed to incorporate strong TDD in order to keep myself on track and design my code in the strongest possible way. I worked hard and still need to break larger problems down into smaller components so I can tackle a problem quicker and with a better understanding

***Rubric Scores***

* A: End-of-Module Assessment: 4
* B: Individual Work & Projects: 3
* C: Group Work & Projects: 3
* D: Professional Skills: 3
* E: Feedback & Community Participation: 3


***A: End of Module Assessment***
* Assessed By: Beth
1. ***Ruby Syntax & API*** - 4: Developer is able to write Ruby with a minimum of reference or debugging
2. ***Completion and Progress*** - 3: Developer completes baseline assignment and makes meaningful progress toward one of the Challenge options.
3. ***Testing*** - 3: Developer writes tests that are effective validation of functionality, but don't drive the design
4. ***Workflow*** - 3: Developer demonstrates comfort with their tools and makes some use of keyboard shortcuts
5. ***Collaboration*** - 4: Developer actively seeks collaboration both before implementing, while in motion, and when stuck
6. ***Enumerable & Collections*** - 3: Application demonstrates comfortable use of appropriate Enumerable methods


***B: Individual Work & Projects***

 I completed the following solo projects: JungleBeats and Event Reporter

***Jungle Beats***
* [github url](https://github.com/antciccone/jungle_beats)	 
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/curriculum/blob/master/source/projects/jungle_beat.markdown)

***Description***

My first individual project was ***JungleBeats***. The purpose of this assignment was to get an understanding of how LinkedLists work while incorporating some fun sounds outputted by your computer.

***Evaluation Comments***
* Assessed By: Jeff
* 14 tests all pass
* Try to write some tests for edge cases -- generally 2+ tests per method
* Tests themselves are well written and organized
* Implementation is clean and good
* Look for opportunities to "name" a chunk of code by extracting it to a method

***Evaluation Scores***
1. ***Functional Expectations*** - 3: Application fulfills all base expectations
2. ***Test-Driven Development*** - 3: Application is well tested but does not balance isolation and integration tests, using only the data necessary to test the functionality
3. ***Encapsulation / Breaking Logic into Components*** - 3: Application effectively breaks logical components apart but breaks the principle of SRP
4. ***Fundamental Ruby & Style*** - 3: Application shows strong effort towards organization, content, and refactoring
5. ***Looping or Recursion*** - 3: Application makes effective use of loop/recursion techniques


***Event Reporter***
* [github url](https://github.com/antciccone/event-reporter)	 
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/curriculum/blob/master/source/projects/event_reporter.markdown)

***Description***

My second individual project was ***Event Reporter***. The purpose of this assignment was to get an understanding of how to parse through specified data.  In this case we were given a CSV file that had data that needed to be cleaned/fixed in order to be pulled out correctly. This was the first project where I needed to have multiple classes interacting with each other. This project also made me implement a REPL (return, evaluate, print, loop) or also known as a command line input. The cli was in place so that the user could search with the terminal and get the output they wanted.

***Evaluation Comments***
* Assessed By: Mark
* 21 runs, 53 assertions, 0 failures, 0 errors, 0 skips, 93% coverage
* good separation of responsibilities, could use a cleaner module, but that's okay
* great understanding of project from end to end.
* repl is easy to use, but could use a few more indicators

***Evaluation Scores***
1. ***Functional Expectations*** - 3: Application fulfills all base expectations
2. ***REPL Interface*** - 3:  Application's REPL is clear and pleasant to use
3. ***Test-Driven Development*** - 3:  Application is well tested but does not balance isolation and integration tests
4. ***Breaking Logic into Components*** - 4: Application is expertly divided into logical components such that individual pieces could be reused or replaced without difficulty
5. ***Fundamental Ruby & Style*** - 4: Application demonstrates excellent knowledge of Ruby syntax, style, and refactoring
6. ***Enumerable & Collections*** - 3: Application demonstrates comfortable use of several Enumerable techniques
7. ***HTML and Style*** - 4: Uses CSS and is aesthetically pleasing, using of images, colors and metadata.

***C: Group Work & Projects***

I completed the following group projects: Enigma and Headcount

***Enigma***
* [github url](https://github.com/antciccone/enigma)	 
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/curriculum/blob/master/source/projects/enigma.markdown)

***Description***

My first group project was ***Enigma***. The purpose of this assignment was to take a particular word, sentence, or paragraph and encrypt it into a secret message. This project was really interesting given the fact Alan Turing in WWII was able to decrypt was the messaged Germans were sending back and forth. It was really fun to learn how/why our school has the name it does. This project posed alot of difficulty in terms of dealing with the logic. It was also the first time working in a group which also made it harder at times. This project helped me understand and utilized multiple advanced enums.  

***Evaluation Comments***
* 24 tests with 4 failing
* lots of tiny code smells to work on simplifying
* watch out for the little things like mismatching names (off_set vs offset) and indentation
* in the end it looks like a good learning project
* try writing code then throwing it away

***Evaluation Scores***
1. ***Overall Functionality*** - 2: Application is missing one of the three operations
2. ***Fundamental Ruby & Style*** - 2: Application runs but the code has many long methods (>8 lines) and needs significant refactoring
3. ***Test-Driven Development*** - 2: Application tests some components but has many gaps in coverage.
4. ***Breaking Logic into Components*** - 3: Application has multiple components with defined responsibilities but there is some leaking of responsibilities

***Headcount***
* [github url]	 
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/curriculum/blob/master/source/projects/headcount.markdown)

***Description***

My second group project was ***Headcount***. This project built off alot of the fundaments that you used in EventReporter but in a larger scale. In headcount our goal was to load multiple csv's at once and parse through them in a proper way. Once the csvs were loaded and parsed accordingly we then took particular data and compared them against each other. This project was extremely tedious and required diligent TDD in order to lead your design. This project also required that your code pass a particular speck harness for desired results which made another layer of complexity.



***Evaluation Scores***
1. ***Functional Expectationn*** -  3: Application fulfills expectations of Iterations 0 - 4 *as well as* one of Iterations 5 or 6

2. ***Test-Driven Development*** - 4: Application is broken into components which are well tested in both isolation and integration using appropriate data

3. ***Encapsulation / Breaking Logic into Components*** - 4: Application is expertly divided into logical components each with a clear, single responsibility

4. ***Fundamental Ruby & Style*** - 3:  Application shows strong effort towards organization, content, and refactoring

5. ***Enumerable & Collections*** - 4: Application consistently makes use of the best-choice Enumerable methods

6. ***Code Sanitation*** 4: Zero complaints


***D: Professional Skills***

***Gear Up***

 ***The Gender Gap in Technology***

* [github url](https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/code_debugging_the_gender_gap.markdown)

This gear up was one of my favorites off all gear ups throughout the mod. It really brought to light the gender gap of male/female programmers and the factors that cause it. As a tech recruiter before this I knew how hard it was to find women developers but never really understood why. I thought this was especially interesting because I had some first hand experience with being a tech recruiter for Bonobos. We fought hard to post jobs on specific women who code websites in order to bring a balance to our tech team. Alot needs to change culturally in order for us to see change in the community.

***There is an "I" in "Team"***

* [github url](https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/there_is_an_i_in_team.markdown)

During this gear up I was in a really fun and funny group that discussed "Do you believe in ghosts? Why or why not?" My first reaction to this question was why are we discussing this at a coding school. Our group had different opinions on the topic which made for a good debate. Our group discussed the importance of understanding and respecting other people's ideas even if they are drastically different from your own. The second half of this gear up we talking about the importance of DTR and how to properly set boundaries. The video we watched during this section made a really important connection between setting boundaries and one's ability to compassionately engage others.

***Getting Better at Difficult Things***

* [github url](https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/getting_better_at_difficult_things.markdown)

This was my first gear up which I related to really well. Moving to Colorado from the east coast made me nervous and created a lot of unknown. The article  [A Quick Note on Getting Better at Difficult Things](http://www.theatlantic.com/education/archive/2015/03/a-quick-note-on-getting-better-at-difficult-things/387133/) has a very interesting quote that I wrote down. "Hopelessness feeds the fatigue that leads the student to quit." I took that as a personal challenge to try to be as positive as possible and think about not what I don't know but how much I have learned over the course of the module. "It is not the study of language that is hard, so much as the "feeling" that your present level is who you are and who you will always be." I have to remind myself that I will get better and the logic will make more sense the more and more I practice. I need to give myself the opportunity to get better at difficult things by approaching with a half glass full mentality.

***Professional Development Workshops***

***Learning How to Pair***

[Workshop URL](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1W64y2vBOrd6hVyHEvFKwtMgQvuHIgkOzngHrDt4JwEQ/edit#slide=id.g1427a6a03f_0_99)

I enjoyed the lesson on learning how to pair as my background before consisted of a lot of solo work. Learning how to define the relationship between you and your partner is imperative if you want to succeed. This requires you to learn how to compromise as well as holding each other accountable.

***Personal Branding***

[Workshop URL](https://github.com/turingschool/professional_skills/blob/master/files/personal-branding.pdf)

Lia's lesson really brought to light how important it is to brand yourself properly in order land a job after Turing. Creating a well formatted resume, posting on twitter, creating a personal website, and updating your LinkedIn are all equally important when creating your own personal brand. I am excited for more personal branding classes to come.

[Links to DTRS](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B_rz6ToWwGE5Q0FIangxS2tFZG8/view)


***E: Feedback and Community Participation***

***Giving Feedback***

Eric was great to work with during the Enigma project and overall an awesome person to have in our Mod. I think we were both having a tough time grasping the concept at first for Enigma but were able to give it our best effort when making a final push to complete the project. Eric is always super communicative and honest. He always wants to understand the deeper meaning why to certain questions he has which often proved useful when I may have wanted to rush through a topic. Eric and I worked together on alot of the mythical-creatures drills. He was great to bounce ideas off of and even screenheroing a couple late nights in order to finish them.

Vido was fantastic to work during our final Headcount project. I learned so much from him as he has a really great understanding of the concepts and depth of material. I liked how honest he wanted me to be with him about what I though of his working style and communication. Outside of our project he was always willing to drop what he was doing to come over an explain an concept that I had trouble understanding.

Alisher and I were never paired on a group project but we would often would come in on the weekends together to discuss our individual projects and how we planned on attacking them. Alisher is one of the most patient people to work with and truly cares about you understanding the concept he is explaining to you. He also has a fantastic grasp on the material and depth which helps him explain ideas really well. Once instance in particular he helped Eric and I on the Enigma project when I was not fully understanding the zip enum. He took time away from his project to help Eric and I push our further along. Alisher is an awesome person to have in our mod and in the Turing community as a whole.

Robbie and I worked together a lot on our projects and drills. He is really approachable and honest which made my first couple of weeks here much easier. Robbie helped me a lot at the beginning of the mod when I was timid approaching other classmates. He was always open on giving advice an helping me set up my pry/seeingisbelieving in the proper way. We also were able to bounce ideas off of each other during the Event Reporter project. If he doesn't understand a topic he is determined to get to the bottom of it before moving on to the next problem.

Raphael was my go to person to pair with when signing up for one v ones with people from mod 2. He is able to explain concepts in a way with out stealing my learning. I can tell being relatable and empathetic are two skills that Raphael has really mastered and made learning from him a pleasure. Multiple times we ran over our allotted time but he refused to end the session until I understood the topic. At the same time he always is laughing/having fun and brings a great vibe to Turing.

***Being a Community Member***

"Anthony kept me in good spirits throughout the project. We had many struggles, but he remain determined. I specifically remember working on the encrypt method and how  relentless he was in finding a solution. We stayed pretty late one night and I wanted to go home, but Anthony treated the task of teaching me how the encrypt method worked as a personal moral obligation. Once he figured it out, his excitement skyrocketed and it became clear how much he loved his work, inspiring me to work harder." - Eric Wahlgren-Sauro

Anthony has provided me a lot of help over the course of the module. There were numerous times where I was stuck on a problem and ended up asking Anthony for help. Anthony was always more than willing to help me and he was very patient with me when it took me a bit to get the concept. I really appreciate the time he took to help me out. Aside from the academic help he provided, we also had some really good conversations during the module. - Robbie Smith

Anthony is a pretty quick guy, he definitely made this project more tolerable, he was open to putting in long hours and he kept a great sense of humor  and attitude for the entirety of it. There wasn't really much I would say he needs to improve on -  I think the logic comes at its own pace and with our group dynamic I ended up doing the majority of the navigating. I think maybe pushing to be the navigator would help build those skills more quickly however its not something I would say influenced our project in a negative way. - Vido Seaver

"Anthony is one of the most hard-working students in our cohort. It is absolutely amazing how many hours he puts into coding at Turing - he is usually the last person to leave. He just does not get tired of trying new ways and methods of solving a given problem, and can also see the problem from a completely different perspective and catches small details I usually miss. Anthony is a valuable asset to Turing community and will go far as a developer." - Alisher

***Playing a Part***

I joined the Grace Hopper posse which primarily focus was to pair and get help from folks in mod2 and above. Since all the material was so new to me I thought this would be the best group for me to be apart of in order to solidify alot of the information. With that said, during our gear up's I would try to contribute as much as possible in order to become more apart of the Turing community. I would also try to go to all the lunch group Fridays which gave me an opportunity to meet and talk to students that are not part of my mod. I tried my best to help people in my mod who were having trouble with a particular problem. This required me to stay late a couple nights or screenhero as well.

***Final Review***

Notes

( Leave blanks for reviewers )

Outcome

( Leave blanks for reviewers )
