Anthony Ciccone - (M2) Portfolio

***Areas of Emphasis***
* My goal for Mod Two is to pass every group and individual project with threes or fours. I also want to drive and facilitate more of the group projects. I want to improve on my git workflow as well!

***Rubric Scores***

* A: End-of-Module Assessment: 3
* B: Individual Work & Projects: 3
* C: Group Work & Projects: 3
* D: Professional Skills: 3
* E: Feedback & Community Participation: 3


*** End of Module Assessment***
* Assessed By: Sal


1. Conceptual Understanding

 * 3.5: Developer is able to describe concepts with a moderately high degree of specificity and accuracy with some assistance/questioning

2. Analytic/Algorithmic Thinking

 * 3.5: Developer breaks complex problems into small, digestible steps and executes them with little assistance

3. Feature Completeness

 * 4: Developer is able to finish all prescribed functionality, refactor and have all passing tests

4. ActiveRecord Syntax and Style

 * 3: Developer is able to establish and utilize ActiveRecord methods with minimal support and understands the relationship between models and the database

5. Rails Style

 * 3: Developer generally writes clean Rails features that make smart use of Ruby, with some struggles in pushing logic down the stack

6. Testing

 * 3.5: Developer uses tests at multiple layers of abstraction to drive development, but may need some assistance parsing errors or prioritizing next steps

7. Collaboration

 * 3.5: Developer lays out their thinking before attacking a problem and integrates feedback through the process



***Blog Post***

[Keep Your Views Clean](https://medium.com/@cicconenyc)

***Non evaluated projects***
* Rails Mini Project and MixMaster

***IdeaBox***

[Github Link](https://github.com/antciccone/ideabox)

***Description***
* I really enjoyed creating IdeaBox as we were given more freedom to add/create features we wanted. This project enabled me to add all the features we learned throughout the mod and was great preparation for little shop! Ideabox also gave me some time to practice with bootstrap, html and css which was extremely valuable in little shop.

***MixMaster***

[Github Link](https://github.com/antciccone/mix_master)

***Description***
* I learned a lot about capybara testing during Mixmaster. I am glad it was more of a tutorial since it was the first time we were required to feature test. The feature testing in the project gave me a great introduction and foundation of skills that I was able to built off of an implement in other projects.

***Evaluated Projects***

Rush Hour, Job Tracker and Little Shop

***Rush Hour***

[Github Link](https://github.com/antciccone/rush-hour-skeleton)

***Rubric***

1) Functional Expectations
3: Application fulfills base expectations

2) Test-Driven Development
3: Application is well tested but does not balance isolation and integration/feature tests

3) Encapsulation / Breaking Logic into Components
4: Application is expertly divided into logical components each with a clear, single responsibility

4) Fundamental Ruby & Style
3: Application shows strong effort towards organization, content, and refactoring

5) Sinatra / Web and Business Logic
3: Application makes good use of Sinatra but has some mixing of the web and business logic.

6) View Layer
3: Application breaks components out to view partials but has some logic or complexity leaking into the view


7) Workflow (NOT GRADED)
3: Good use of branches, pull requests, and a project-management tool.

***Description***
* Rush Hour was our first project of the mod. I liked that our first project we used Sinatra instead of rails. I think learning Sinatra and having to learn to build everything from scratch gave me a better understanding of what rails is doing under the hood. This was also a great learning experience with using more active record methods rather then ruby.

***Job Tacker***

[Github Link](https://github.com/antciccone/job-tracker)

***Rubric***

1) Database, Relationships, and Migrations
4: The database has appropriate tables and appropriate columns to create relationships between tables. Foreign keys are indexed to increase database performance. Tables and columns are appropriately named.

2) Routes
3: The developer has routes for all functionality that they provide, but may include routes that are not used in the application.

3) Controllers
3: Some logic may leak into the controllers that would more appropriately exist in a model/PORO. The developer may pass more instance variables than necessary to the view.

4) ActiveRecord
3: ActiveRecord methods are used appropriately in the database, but some Ruby enumerables may also be used. The developer uses ActiveRecord relationships appropriately, and does not call on other classes in their models.

5) Views
3: Limited logic that could be moved elsewhere remains in the views and/or controllers and developers are able to identify potentially opportunities to refactor.

6) User Experience
3: The application has been styled, but the user may need to use the nav-bar to enter a URL or back button to get to access some functionality.

7) Testing
2: Project has sporadic use of tests and multiple levels

***Description***
* Job tracker was our first individually project. Job tracker required me to repeat and practice a lot of the skills we learned through out the mod. The last iteration was tougher as we were required to capture different params and render views depending on what params came in. I thought the design of the project was fantastic as it guided us with some instruction but also required a lot of exploration and experimenting.

***Little Shop***

[Github Link](https://github.com/bfpepper/little-shop-1608)

***Description***
* I really enjoyed the process of little shop and I felt like it was a great project that incorporated all the skills we have learned through out the mod. My group was awesome to work with and I learned something new from each one of them. I also appreciated the opportunity to work in smaller groups on this project which gave me a chance to improve on my git workflow skills. I'm really proud of this project and it is definitely one I can put on my resume.

<center>***Professional Skills***</center>

***Gear Up: Resilience***

* When I first read the title of this gear up I kind of "rolled my eyes." Our teacher had us read this article http://www.newyorker.com/science/maria-konnikova/the-secret-formula-for-resilience. The article was interesting in the fact that it broke down how/why some people are resilient and some people are not. I value personal resilience a lot as getting through Turing in general requires alot of resilience and self reflection. I think  people who struggle through Turing may lack the ability to be highly resilient for an extended period of time, but I do think the more often you are given a difficult life challenge the better you get at handling them.

***Gear Up: Vote Your Conscience***

* I found the Vote Your Conscience gear up to be informative especially during our group discussion sessions. We broke off into groups of 6-8 and it was fun and educational to hear everyone's opinions on the currently election and "Our right to vote" in general. Although some people in our group had totally opposite opinions our group was still able to have a constructive conversation.

***Gear Up: Introversion and Extroversion on Teams***
* This was one of my favorite gear ups during this mod because we were discussing this topic only within our cohort. It was interesting to learn about how society does not to a good job of setting up introverts for success, rather society tends to reward extroverts more often. I consider myself in the middle the extrovert/introvert spectrum. My group had a great discussion on how both extroverts and introverts act within teams and how companies should have an environment where both extroverts and introverts can prosper.



***Company Tracker***
1. Bonobos
  * Tim Julien: VP of Engineering - tjulien@bonobos.com
2. BuzzFeed
  * Dan Geiger: Tech Recruiter - geiger.dan@gmail.com
3. Angelist
 * Magnus: Magnus@angel.co Engineer...former Director of Eng at Bonobos
4. NHL
 * Mike Sharer: epitaphmike@gmail.com - Engineer Manager
5. Tansfix
 * Rockman Ha - rockmanha@gmail.com - COO

***Mod 2 Project Strategies***
* During both of my group projects my group and I were able to implement some project management strategies that helped us stay on track. During our first project we paired more often and would not break off to work on our own as much, but we were still able to use waffle.io and different branches to help us stay organized. During my second group project we broke off individually more often which helped us practice git workflow. We also used waffle.io cards more effectively(tagged cards, assigned carts).
* I really appreciated the feedback I received from all my team members during my group project.
...answer rest of ? here...(How you incorporated feedback from your team members and what you learned about yourself in the process.)

***Giving Feedback***
* To Brad: Positive--level headed, fun, contributed bits and pieces when we could. Constructive--be more assertive.

* To Daniel: Positive--learned a lot about databases and difficult logic. Fun. It was cool. Good group dynamics. Constructive--gives off nervous energy, even when it's just excitement.

* To Ben: Really relaxed and easy to work with. Ben was really helpful with our github workflow. He was often the one check over pull requests and push our work to master. Ben also looked into pulling google maps into our project which was a great addition.

* To Joey: Joey was an awesome addition to our littleshop team. I don't think we would have been able to pull off any of the cool search bar and password functionality if it wasn't for you willing to dive into some JavaScript. Pairing with you was great as I learned a lot and I can clearly see why your code and understanding is so strong. My only suggestion would be when pairing with someone (since you have the answer first 99% of the time) to check in with the other person to make sure they understand the code just as clearly. Other then that working with you was a pleasure and would love to paired up again!

* To Ryan: I appreciated Ryan's patients when I paired with him and he was awesome to work with. When writing a feature test he would always check in to make sure we were on the same page before moving on to the next test. I also thought Ryan's work ethic was awesome. At the beginning of our project he went back an commented on all the waffle cards to make sure we were covering all of our base requirements. Would gladly be in another group project with Ryan.


***Feedback for me***
* From Daniel: Positive--fun, smarter than you think you are. You have good solutions. Constructive--drive more & take charge.

* From Brad: Positive--Calm, level headed with good solutions. Constructive--When you have a comment about code, explain the code more clearly.

* From Joey: I’ve had a great time working on little shop with you. I think your opinions at the beginning of the project drove us to create an application that we can actually put in our portfolios. Without your criticism the whole thing might have turned into a sarcastic mess. This kind of grounded thinking was extremely valuable throughout the project and I’m really happy about where we ended up. I also want to give you a shoutout for taking on some of the more difficult things that no one else wanted to deal with. You kept the project rolling when the rest of us were stuck in our own little rabbit holes. My criticism is more of a suggestion: Next project, switch the roles and go down your own rabbit hole. It’s really important to have someone stay focused on the issues, and you crushed that role on this project. If we work together again, I’d be happy to keep the base functionality on track while you get lost in whatever interests you. It’s not necessary, but it’s fun and I think you deserve it after little shop.

* From Ben: Anthony was a work horse during Little shop. He was always willing to take on a card and make any changes necessary. He was extremely easy to pair with and always brought fantastic ideas to the table. He has great attention to detail and I am sure he will be fantastic through out the rest of Turing and in the workforce.

* From Ryan: Throughout Little Shop, I appreciated you for your flexibility, work ethic, and even keel. You were willing to work on any part of the project that the group needed and it was always easy to pair with you. I was especially thankful when you went back at the end of the project to check our work against the base requirements. My one piece of constructive feedback would be to make sure that your opinions are heard. I think that sometimes you can be quieter during group decisions. It would be interesting to see what happens if you are a project manager in future groups!


Notes

( Leave blanks for reviewers )

Outcome

( Leave blanks for reviewers )
