## Module 4 - Anthony Ciccone

## Areas of Emphasis
Throughout the course of Module 4 I wanted to focus on refining all the skills I have learned through out Turing. I also want to understand the basics of both server side javascript and client side javascript.

## Rubric Scores
*   **A: End-of-Module Assessment**: 3
*   **B: Individual Work & Projects**: 3
*   **C: Group Work & Projects**: 4
*   **D: Professional Skills**: 3
*   **E: Feedback & Community Participation**: 3

## End of Module Assessment
Final Assessment: Pass :)
Reviewer: Jeff

Notes:

* Logout/Login works fine
* UX flow is a little confusing but works ok
* Posting links is good
* Editing works
* The service integration works well
* Highlighting/formatting is a bit ugly, but functional
* Filtering and such works well
* Tests 20 with 2 pending
* Feature tests ok, API tests are good, Model tests could be stronger
* Documentation is very barebones but ok
* 27 commits, not really branches
* Implementation is solid in both Ruby and JS
* JS is a bit heavy -- could use a little refactoring

## Rubric

Subjective evaluation will be made on your work/process according to the following criteria:

#### 1. Satisfactory Progress

* 3: Developer completes sections 1 through 5 minor bugs and no missing functionality.

#### 2. Ruby & Rails Style & API

* 3: Developer generally writes clean Rails features that make smart use of Ruby, with some struggles in pushing logic down the stack. The application displays good judgement in modeling the problem as data. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code is doing.

#### 3. Javascript Syntax & Style

* 3: Developer writes solid Javascript code using common patterns and idioms. Code is organized appropriately within objects and functions. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code is doing.

#### 4. Testing

* 3: Developer writes tests that are effective validation of functionality, but don't drive the design. Developer uses integration tests, controller tests, and model tests where appropriate.

#### 5. User Interface

* 3: The application has many strong pages/interactions, but a few holes in lesser-used functionality

#### 6. Documentation

* 3: Project features excellent documentation showing how to develop the application

#### 7. Workflow

* 3: The developer makes a series of small, atomic commits that document the evolution of their application. There are no formatting issues in the code base.

## Individual Projects

* [My Open Source pull request](https://github.com/ReadyResponder/ReadyResponder/pull/376)
* [Blog Post](https://medium.com/@cicconenyc/contributing-to-open-source-eceb1576cec7#.ovmptern7)


## Group Projects
***Quantified Self***

* [Source Code](https://github.com/antciccone/quantified-self)
* [Production](https://antciccone.github.io/quantified-self/)
* [Scores](https://github.com/turingschool/ruby-submissions/blob/master/1608-b/4module/quantified-self/anthony_brad.md)

Description
 * An application to track daily caloric intake and exercise. Compare calorie intake for each meal to predefined goals. I thought quantified self was an awesome introduction to javascript and also a fun at the same time.


***Briefcase***

 * [Source Code](https://github.com/antciccone/briefcase)
 * [Production](https://turing-briefcase-production.herokuapp.com/)
 * [Scores](https://github.com/turingschool/ruby-submissions/blob/master/1608-b/4module/capstone_2/briefcase.md)

Description
* Briefcase is an index of Turing alumni for employers to see. Students can create portfolios which detail the students' background and preferences. They are also able to link projects they worked on throughout their time at Turing. Users login through Census, a third party application. All pictures and files are hosted on AWS S3.


***Gadget***

* [Source Code](https://github.com/turingschool-projects/briefcase)
* [Production](https://turing-gadget-production.herokuapp.com/)

Description
   * Gadet was a really simple web app that will help teachers understand if  students have properly filled out their github and linkedin profiles.


## Professional Development:
* [Six outreach emails](https://github.com/turingschool/career-development-curriculum/blob/master/deliverable_submissions/1608-b/anthony_ciccone.md)

* Imposter Syndrome
  * This was one of my favorite gear ups of the mod at it made you realize that you are not the only one sharing this feeling. I thought it was interesting to see all the different types of feelings people have when entering the job market. I also enjoyed the small group discussion I had at the end which talked about the challenges of technical interviews.   

* [Alumni Portfolio](https://www.turing.io/alumni/anthony-ciccone)



## Gear Up

* Tragedy of the Commons
 * I enjoyed all the visual representations of how easy it is to fall into a trap of not having a diverse community or work environment. I think it is important to have diversity in the workspace as it helps you realize and see things from a different perspective.

* Automation
 * I am not sure what to think of this gear up. I thought it gave a really good argument for one side of the equation. I think it would be interesting to hear the other side of the equation. What are the benefits of automation and what new jobs could be created from it. With that said, I think it is important to be aware of this and to be well informed about automation in general.

* Universal Basic Income  
  * I never really heard of this concept before this gear up. I thought our class had a really positive discussion on the implications both negative and positive of the implications of have UBI. I always enjoy a gear up when my particular group has opposing opinions as it makes for a more interesting discussion. I would be curious to hear more about the economic impact of implementing this in our society.


## Community:

* To Dan - This was my second time being partners with Dan on a project. Dan had a huge impact on our project as he was able to lay down all the ground work of how to use react.js. Dan always impresses me on how well and quickly he can teach himself a new concept. Along that same line, Dan is really easy to pair and get along with. I also went to Dan's spike on SQL which I thought was really well put together and I learned a lot from. Dan is certainly one of the best programmers I have pair with a Turing.

* To Brad - I had a blast working with Brad. I think we got along really well and had a great work dynamic. Brad drove half the project and took on alot of the toughest aspects of the project. We both worked really hard and I was happy with the outcome of the project. I was partners with Brad in mod two and I feel like he improved alot in terms of taking the lead and voicing his opinions.

* From Brad -  Positive: You're a super hard worker and really fun to work with. I feel like we tackled problems in a truly collaborative manner. I never felt left behind, nor did it ever feel like I was doing an unfair amount of work. We both worked hard and built a thing. Constructive: You sometimes seem less engaged when you're not driving. Work to stay just as engaged whether you're driving or not.

* From Matt - I came into this module from another module and didn't have the chance to work with Anthony on any projects in module 3.  I ended up feeling very lucky to have Anthony as a group member on our final project.  I really enjoyed the team dynamic we had for our final project and it made for my favorite project at Turing.  I didn't mind working late and tackling problems because I really enjoyed the team and working with each other on Briefcase.  I was more than impressed with Anthony's work and felt he contributed to many tough tasks presented in the project.  He is very fast at writing code and getting things done, and specifically helped to take over driving when the team was losing focus.  The only feedback that I would give Anthony is to make sure he knows how strong he is as a coder.  I feel he is one of the top programmers in the class.  His contributions to our project showed and I would welcome pairing with Anthony anytime in the future.

* From Dan - Anthony is a quick learner and was usually the one to round up the group to get work done. Anthony helped a lot in making sure we got our cards done and had the project on track. There were definitely days where I didn't really know what the best thing to focus on was, and Anthony would point out what we should do (like it was obvious). Anthony's attention to detail and critical thinking definitely helped us make a high quality product in the end. I think he will find success in either front-end or back-end environment.

* To Matt - This was my first time being in a group with Matt. He was awesome to pair with and I loved having him in my group. Matt build out our whole alumni page and did an awesome job (CSS Master). I was really impressed how Matt often took on some of the more difficult parts of our Briefcase project.  My only constructive feedback would be for Matt to portray more confidence because his technical skills are way better then he gives himself credit for.

Co-lead a Friday Spike (Git)
* I do not think I fully understood the difference of git/github and how they interacted till the beginning of mod two and I wish I had a gear up on it earlier in mod one. For that reason, I was excited to Co lead this spike and help early mod one/two folks understand the different of git/github and how to use proper workflow during their projects.

Contribute in a meaningful way to project of a student/team not in your module
* I helped Eric who is in mod three on api curious. This is the first project in mod three where instead of rendering your own api you are pulling data from an external api. He was working on oauth with github and pull basic user information as well as their repositories. I think I had a positive influence on the project as I helped him understand and properly set up his github service. I also was explaining to him that for each endpoint you hit you want to create an object out of it.

## Final Review


### Notes

Good solid work this module, I always see you around working hard. It has really been a pleasure seeing how much you've grown since M1. Strong work throughout this module, really maintaining a great level of effort.

### Outcome

Recommended for Graduation
