# Kris Foss - M3 Portfolio

## Individual

### Areas of Emphasis

This module I set out to achieve the goal of finishing as "a developer".  I wanted to continue to grow my skills and confidence in my own abilities.  It was important to me to really solidify what I already learned and incorporate the new, more advanced skills of working with apis.  I also decided to switch testing suites and embrace Rspec instead of Minitest, since I felt least comfortable with it and had also been told it was more widely used in the workplace.  I have completely embraced it and I actually prefer it at this point. I learned the inside and out of what Rspec does, what kind of testing to employ where.

I have really improved my workflow and I employ a lot of time saving key bindings that make navigating Atom much more efficient.  I also have a better grasp of what is possible with Rails and Ruby and I’m able to sling ruby code with much more expertise than I would have expected.  It’s exciting and amazing to look back on what I have learned in such a small amount of time.

I also feel I mastered Nokogiri and have a very strong hold on styling.  I have an understanding of working with a client, taking a business need and producing a product that meets the client’s expectations.   I am excited about AJAX and JQuery and the learning that will bring in Java Script and even more interactive features.  I’m faster, stronger, and better than I thought I could be and I’m proud of what I have produced in this module.

### End of Module Assessment

Notes:

* API works well
* What's the downside to using null_session in ApplicationController
* Service is started but not complete
* Search form returns `No route matches [GET] "/search"`
* Start to Store class is good. .all method needs a zip passed to it.
* Logic behind the writing of the test is really good. Trying to access root_path but it isn't defined in the routes file.

## Evaluation Criteria

Subjective evaluation will be made on your work/process according to the following criteria:

### Ruby Style

* 4: Developer writes code that is exceptionally clear and well-factored
* **3: Developer solves problems with a balance between conciseness and clarity and often extracts logical components**
* 2: Developer writes effective code, but does not breakout logical components
* 1: Developer writes code with unnecessary variables, operations, or steps which do not increase clarity
* 0: Developer writes code that is difficult to understand

### Rails Syntax & API

* 4: Developer is able to craft Rails features that follow the principles of MVC, push business logic down the stack, and skillfully utilizes ActiveRecord to model application state. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code is doing.
* **3: Developer generally writes clean Rails features that make smart use of Ruby, with some struggles in pushing logic down the stack. The application displays good judgement in modeling the problem as data. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code is doing.**
* 2: Developer struggles with some concepts of MVC.  Developer is not confident in what every line of the code is doing or cannot speak to the choices made.
* 1: Developer struggles with MVC and pushing logic down the stack
* 0: Developer shows little or no understanding of how to craft Rails applications

### Testing

* 4: Developer excels at taking small steps and using the tests for both design and verification. All new lines of code are tested.
* **3: Developer writes tests that are effective validation of functionality. Most new lines of code are tested.**
* 2: Developer writes tests. Most new lines of code are tested but they aren't effective at testing for functionality and value.
* 1: Developer is able to write tests, but most new lines of code are not tested.
* 0: Developer does not use tests.

### Progression/Completion

* 4: Developer is able to implement solutions at the speed of a developer.
* 3: Developer is able to implement solutions at the speed of a junior developer.
* **2: Developer is able to implement solutions at the speed of an apprentice.**
* 1: Developer struggles to implement solutions at the speed of an apprentice.
* 0: Developer is not able to implement basic functionality.

### Workflow

* **4: Developer commits every 15 minutes**
* 3: Developer commits almost every 15 minutes
* 2: Developer does not commit regularly
* 1: Developer has poor git workflow and does not commit regularly
* 0: Developer committed once


### Group Projects:

#### Goats and Soda

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/kristindiannefoss/pivot)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/lesson_plans/blob/master/ruby_03-professional_rails_applications/the_pivot.md)
* [Heroku](https://goatsandsoda.herokuapp.com/)

This Rails application is a micro-donation site. A user can create an account and donate available items to multiple recipients. A recipient is an "admin" user for their "store", they can select predetermined needs from the catalog to request specific donations. A master admin user can edit information with recipients and donors. The code is "pivoted" off of a module 2 little shop to practice multi-tenancy.

### Evaluation Comments:

Completion: Everything we wanted done and complete, plus extra extensions.

Workflow: Waffle cards look like you’ve been using it well, real world, you will always have a backlog, seems like you aimed high.  Will always be more to do.  Git log looks good, comments and “closes #43” is good practice.

UX: Production ready, solid

Testing: Maybe more scoping in tests.  Coverage seems good.  Path checks are good.  By looking at the tests, it seems coverage.html scores are legit.  Tests look good.

Code Quality: Donations controller, maybe more trips to the database than needed.  Maybe the donations_params should be a separate PORO.

Users controller, maybe set the name of the role to come in, enum can give you the ability to call on the name of the string.  Better than checking for an integer, could open you up to bugs.

Go write a scope on the User model to get “recipients”, instead of on the controller.  So in the controller you can call User.recipients.

Will learn how to use API services, a processor PORO.

Needs Helper is well placed.  Would be good to move this to a service directory.  Could separate into two services.  The intent of helpers is to be used in the views, not the controllers or models.  Stuff like formatting text, links.

(evaluation scores)
Evaluated by: Josh M.

#### Notes:

- Great project. Implemented Stripe checkout.

#### Feature Delivery

** Completion**

* **4: Team completed all the user stories and requirements set by the client in timely manner.**
* 3: Team completed all the user stories and requirements set by the client.
* 2: Team completed most of the user stories and requirements set by the client.
* 1: Team completed the user stories and requirements partially.

** Organization**

* **4: Team used a project management tool and updated their progress in real-time.**
* 3: Team used a project management tool to keep their project organized.
* 2: Team used a project management tool but didn't update the progress frequently.
* 1: Team failed to use a project management tool to track its progress.

** Git Workflow**

* ** 4: Team always pull requests to introduce code to their project in a professional manner. Most commits are squashed.**
* 3: Team always used pull requests to introduce code to their project.
* 2: Team often used pull requests to introduce code to their project.
* 1: Team did not use pull requests to introduce code to their project.
* 0: Team did not use git or GitHub.

#### Technical Quality

**Test-Driven Development**

* 4: Project shows exceptional use of testing at different layers (above 95% coverage).
* **3: Project shows adequate testing (90% - 95% coverage).**
* 2: Project shows gaps in test usage/coverage/design (85 - 90% coverage).
* 1: Project lacks sufficient testing (under 85% coverage).

** Code Quality**

* 4: Project demonstrates exceptionally well factored code.
* ** 3: Project demonstrates solid code quality and MVC principles.**
* 2: Project demonstrates some gaps in code quality and/or application of MVC principles.
* 1: Project demonstrates poor factoring and/or understanding of MVC.

### Product Experience

**User Experience**

* 4: Project exhibits a production-ready and polished UX.
* ** 3: Project exhibits a production-ready user experience.**
* 2: Project exhibits some gaps in the UX.
* 1: Project exhibits inattention to the user experience.

### Risk taking and creativity

**Extensions**

* **4: Developers pushed themselves and their team by taking risks which is demonstrated by a delivered feature.**
* 3: Developers pushed themselves and their team by taking risks which is demonstrated by an almost delivered feature.
* 2: Developers attempted to implement extensions using technologies not covered in class but it did not result in a delivered feature.
* 1: Developers but did not build any extensions.



## Individual Projects

#### Dev Grove, Tough Love

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/kristindiannefoss/self_directed)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/lesson_plans/blob/master/ruby_03-professional_rails_applications/self_directed_project.md)

Assessor: Brenna

Heroku: http://dev-grove-tough-love.herokuapp.com/

Notes:
  - Tests cover all levels of the app - would like to see more robust feature tests to reflect user stories/pinpoint html elements
  - Good color scheme
  - Love that you pulled in Nokogiri to scrape websites including github for commit count
  - DRAGGABLE! :)

### Feature Delivery

**Completion**

* 4: Developer completed all the user stories and requirements set by the client in timely manner.
* **3: Developer completed all the user stories and requirements set by the client.**
* 2: Developer completed most of the user stories and requirements set by the client.
* 1: Developer completed the user stories and requirements partially.

**Organization**

* **4: Developer used a project management tool and updated their progress in real-time.**
* 3: Developer used a project management tool to keep their project organized.
* 2: Developer used a project management tool but didn't update the progress frequently.
* 1: Developer failed to use a project management tool to track its progress.

#### Technical Quality

**Test-Driven Development**

* 4: Project shows exceptional use of testing at different layers (above 95% coverage).
* **3: Project shows adequate testing (90% - 95% coverage).**
* 2: Project shows gaps in test usage/coverage/design (85 - 90% coverage).
* 1: Project lacks sufficient testing (under 85% coverage).

**Code Quality**

* 4: Project demonstrates exceptionally well factored code.
* **3: Project demonstrates solid code quality and MVC principles.**
* 2: Project demonstrates some gaps in code quality and/or application of MVC principles.
* 1: Project demonstrates poor factoring and/or understanding of MVC.

#### Product Experience

**User Experience**

* 4: Project exhibits a production-ready and polished UX.
* **3: Project exhibits a production-ready user experience.**
* 2: Project exhibits some gaps in the UX.
* 1: Project exhibits inattention to the user experience.

**Performance**

* 4: Project pages load on average under 300 milliseconds.
* 3: Project pages load on average under 400 milliseconds.
* **2: Project pages load on average under 500 milliseconds.**
* 1: Project pages load on average over 500 milliseconds.




## Community
#### Feedback to me:

Jon Liss:
"Sup roomie!  I was stoked to see that we were paired, because you're probably the nicest and most generous person in the cohort.  I thought all my other group projects lacked that someone who was not constantly butting heads with people and was someone who you could just enjoy working with.  You played a crucial part in setting a really good (theme | environment | feeling) for the group which enabled us to have a (99% of the time) really good working relationship, and I can't even begin to tell you how important that is for the success of the group.  My feedback is the same as before: You're unnecessarily hard on yourself for your hardships, a huge thing that helped me grow as a person and as a programmer was that I started to really believe what everyone told me.  So give yourself more credit for what you do.  You took on the biggest chunk of work in the entire project, and you came through for everyone with it.  What you accomplished was nothing short of fantastic, and you did it all without relying on any of us for help, which was something no one else in the group did.  I had Jared and Hedy to ask for help with the stuff I was doing, but you did the entirety of the styling without anyone else working on something similar.  Plus all the admin stuff.  Thats downright crazy.  Keep doing what you're doing and you'll be just fine!"

Hedy:
"kay kay, was very happy working with you. thanks for taking over the styling for the pivot, as it was something no one else wanted to take on or possibly do as well, and you did a good job on it.  also you took on the seeding portion, and that was really appreciated, especially as we were able to deliver something concrete on our client checkins b/c of it.  i appreciated that you wanted to do the admin cruds portion, as i know you had stated you wanted to get into the backend portion also, but i wonder whether you might have taken on too much at the time, all at one time. but nevertheless, you paced yourself well, and i'm really glad you enjoyed this project so much.  i think some of the actionable things is i would love to have heard more from you while you were working on the code, just to see where you are, and though you did come to us from time to time to troubleshoot, i wish you would have done so earlier and more often.  i'm also sorry for the times i might have felt dispirited with our project,  or the pace of our project, and so i hope i didn't affect your own joy at the time with my nagging.  i also trust you will do fine in the industry. i do want you to hold your ground and be more willing to kick butt especially against people who are louder and opinionated, especially when its warranted.  you can be kind (as you always are), and be firm when people give you an attitude you don't appreciate or  when they give unreasonable justification for doing things in a certain way. the last actionable thing i want to say regarding the pivot, is to make sure you rake test before all PRs.  thanks for keeping company in the cabana, you were a joy to work with! :-)"

Jared Roth: "While on this project, Kris endured a lot of conflict that didn't involve her. (Hint: it involved me) She made great efforts to be a peacemaker and did well to continue working throughout the struggles. I think that one area of improvement for Kris would be "code quality." Referring mostly to visual structure things like whitespace and indentation and more specifically to html. I think this will come naturally as she grows in understanding of the fundamental meaning and structure of the code, but focusing on gaining that understanding will be helpful."

Alireza Anderson: "Working aside Kris these past few months have been amazing. To see her progress from the first day of Mod 1 to creating an amazing app, is the true definition of a developer. What makes Kris a fantastic developer, is not only her logic, but her creativity and UI experience. She truly understand the way a user thinks and embraces that experience throughout her logic thus allowing her to make such great programs. On a side note. Kris has been the most motivating person that I have met throughout my time at turing. She’s always willing to help when you need and has the most positive vibe. I positive that Kris will be one of the best FullStack Developers that Turing has created and will have a successful career."


#### Giving Feedback

Hedy:	"I was excited to have the chance to work in a group with Hedy.  She was a great addition to the cohort right away.  She reaches out to the group and offers really helpful resources and answers and I knew she'd be a strong partner.  We were also able to work in a fantastic setting and she was a wonderful host.  Her passion for learning new things and pushing the limits is really admirable.  She is so very smart and hardworking.  As a group, we were able to parse a complex task and complete the necessary actions to finish it.  I was really impressed by what Hedy added to the project with the Ajax functionality, the precision of her programming, the thorough test coverage, and her ability to lead.  She pushes to throughly understand each concept and goes the extra ten miles to get to that goal.  She is really something.  So glad I had the chance to work with her."

Jon Liss:	"I didn't know what to expect going into a group with Jon Liss, I was intimidated, because programming seems to come so naturally to him and I'd never been in a group with him before.  I didn't know how someone who wrote code in so many languages and solved complex algorithms for fun would view me and my own programming style.  But Jon was great to work with.  He's patient and kind and tireless.  He pushes himself to tackle really advanced parts of the project and follows through to completion, despite hitting serious technical resistance and difficulty.  He was able to clean up a few of my messes with git, help me dig through some vicious bugs, help integrate all the moving parts, and he and Hedy really cleaned things up with the refactoring.  Although his skill set is very advanced, he does not talk down to or over other group members and he's an inclusive, encouraging, fun person to work with.  I know he will be extremely successful in the workforce."

Jared Roth:	"This is the second project I've had the chance to work with Jared on.  I really enjoy working with Jared, he is a meticulous programmer who really takes time to do things the right way.  I like his organization style and the way he approaches a project really makes sense to me.  He is really skilled at taking apart a problem in a way that makes the steps manageable.  He was able to jump in to the group a day after we had started and really acquaint himself with the code.  And though he had to miss some of the meetings, he caught up and stayed on top of the changing code base.  He has said that one of his struggles is showing his frustration in groups, but I find this to be a part of what makes him such a passionate programmer who truly strives for excellence.  We all have hurdles we need to push past to reach our potential.  Pair programming with him is always a good experience, working through a problem, he takes time to listen to ideas and come to a solution together.  He's good at explaining his ideas and thought process.  I would definitely work with Jared again if given the chance and I would recommend him in a professional setting."


### Being a Community Member, Playing a Part

This module I helped host several social events at our nearby house that had open invitations to multiple cohorts.  Most notably, we hosted a 30+ person BBQ to celebrate Allan and Nick Weiland, who were both leaving Turing early for their new jobs.  We are still not fully recovered, the impact was large.

I was exhausted and under-rested much of this module as many of us are, and never dragged myself out of bed in time for Joan Clark.  I attended Denver.rb as well as Ilana's BBQ and several other social events thrown by turing students.  I also watched Ilana's lovely dog when she had to go back home for a funeral, which was actually pretty wonderful.

I am basically house mom for a turing dorm and I support both of my house-mates and receive support and friendship in return.  I think I am an active member of the turing community and I think people know that they can come to me if they need to.  I have built relationships in many of the adjacent cohorts and deeply care about the people I have come to love here.  I attended the Horace/Rachel party, went to a frisbee club meeting, went running with Allan, played tennis with Scott, danced Bachata with Sal and Salsa with Julian, went art walking with Ali, bonded with Hedy over many frantic code binges and triple expressos.

I may not be the strongest developer in my cohort, or the fastest, or the smartest, but I work hard and I think people can tell that I am dedicated to both the people here and to the program.  I trust that you all know what is best for me as a developer and what would be the best course of action given my progress and the body of work I have produced during this module.

### Review

### Rubric Scores

* **A: End-of-Module Assessment**: X
* **B: Individual Work & Projects**: X
* **C: Group Work & Projects**: X
* **D: Community Participation**: X
* **E: Peer & Instructor Feedback**: X

### Notes

( Leave blanks for reviewers )

### Outcome

( Leave blanks for reviewers )
