# Cole Hart - M2 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

This module, we translated our Vanilla JS / ES5 and jQuery knowledge into ES6 syntax. We also learned about complex data structures and sorting algorithms, building a binary search tree and prefix tree from scratch. We were also introduced to TDD in front-end engineering and the basics of React. We continued to strengthen our knowledge and familiarity with array protoypes and learned about object prototype methods.

## Rubric Scores

* **A: End-of-Module Assessment**: Proficient
* **B: Individual Work & Projects**: Proficient
* **C: Group Work & Projects**: Proficient
* **D: Professional Skills**: Proficient
* **E: Community Participation**: Proficient

-----------------------

## A: End of Module Assessment

Pass

## B: Individual Work & Projects

Complete-Me, the prefix tree, was our only independent project.

#### Complete Me

* [GitHub Repo](https://github.com/colehart/complete-me)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/complete-me.html)

The objective was to build a prefix tree that could be populated with both submitted user input and large datasets which then suggests a word or set of words based on all received input.


#### Assessment Notes:

- Good problem-solving approach and whiteboarding.
- Good verbalization of complex ideas using proper technical vocabulary.

## C: Group Work & Projects

### Projects

I really enjoyed working on GameTime this mod. Weathrly was pretty difficult but ultimately very valuable with introducing React structures and concepts and working with APIs and fetch calls.

#### Game-Time - Nom Nom Snake

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/colehart/game-time)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/game-time.html)

Recreate a classic arcade game using Canvas.

#### Assessment Notes:

* [Original Assessment Notes from Instructor](https://github.com/turingschool/front-end-submissions-public/blob/master/1806/mod-2/game-time/kevins-cole.md)

#### Partner Feedback:

Cole and I worked well together. There were points were you were tired and I had energy, and you jumped in when I was exhausted. There were times when I didn't have the answers that you jumped in with them and vice versa.


#### Weathrly

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/colehart/weathrly)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/weathrly.html)

Create a React weather app using Weather Underground's API.

#### Assessment Notes:

- Understands basic React concepts
- Understands and implements API fetch call


#### Partner Feedback:

Cole and I worked very well together. Our working styles complimented each other very well. You were a pleasure to work with.


## D: Community Participation

### Playing a Part

I paired with Mod 1 students individually three times this mod and taught mythical creatures thrice during their lunch times. I attended IronFE sessions many mornings. I also participated in the QueerQoders affinity group, staffed the Turing Booth at Boulder Pride for a shift and coordinated getting the Turing banner to and from the pride coordinator.

------------------

## Final Review

### Notes

( Leave blanks for reviewers )

### Outcome

( Leave blanks for reviewers )
