# Cole Hart - M1 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

I wanted to translate my knowledge of Ruby and Ruby on Rails from the first two mods of Turing's back end program into JavaScript and jQuery prowess. I also wanted to get more comfortable with HTML and CSS, specifically grid and flexbox. I achieved all of that and had fun along the way.

## Rubric Scores

* **A: End-of-Module Assessment**: Proficient
* **B: Individual Work & Projects**: Proficient
* **C: Group Work & Projects**: Proficient
* **D: Professional Skills**: Proficient
* **E: Community Participation**: Proficient

-----------------------

## A: End of Module Assessment

Individual Coding Challenge-A - DOM Traversal: 

Individual Coding Challenge-B - Mythical Creature: 

Final Project (Static Comp Challenge #3) : Passing Score (Proficient in all areas) required

## B: Individual Work & Projects

Our only assessed individual assignment this month was Number Guesser, our first project of the mod.

#### Number Guesser

* [GitHub Repo](https://github.com/colehart/number-guesser)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/number-guesser.html)

The objective was to build a game where the user guesses a number between 1 and 100, following the provided design comps.


#### Assessment Notes:

- Great job creating helper functions to keep everything clean and pretty short!
- Make sure to use kebab-case in HTML/CSS; only use camelCase is JS :)
- Leaving a little white space between CSS rules will make it a little more readable.  
- [Detailed Notes and Scores](https://github.com/turingschool/front-end-submissions-public/blob/master/1806/mod-1/number-guesser/cole-hart.md)

## C: Group Work & Projects

### Projects

I really enjoyed working on LinkedList, IdeaBox, and 2DoBox-Pivot with my partners this mod.

#### LinkedList

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/colehart/linked-list)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/linked-list.html)

A small application which, in it’s simplest form, should have the following:

- Two input fields  
  - One for the title of the bookmark  
  - One for the URL that the bookmark should link to
- One button for creating the bookmark and adding it to the page
- A section for all of the created bookmarks; each bookmark should display:  
  - The title of the bookmark  
  - The URL of the bookmark (this should be clickable and link to the URL)  
  - A button to “Mark as Read”  
  - A button to “Remove” the bookmark

#### Assessment Notes:

- GOOD JOB!!! The best nerds.
- really good job talking through the code
- awesome that you're using Waffle, refactoring, and referencing the style guides  
- [Detailed Notes and Scores](https://github.com/turingschool/front-end-submissions-public/blob/master/1806/mod-1/linked-list/cole-derek.md)

#### Partner Feedback:

This was by far the best partnered project I have done so far at Turing, and for this great experience I thank Cole! The amount of professionalism and empaty Cole offers is amazing. Cole introduced me to new tools,  like waffle.io which definitely helped me take my performance to the next level! I truly am grateful to have worked with Cole and know the experiences I had in this pairing will continue to resonate with my as I continue my career as a web developer. Cole has a great vision and foresight as to what we were doing and how we could get further. There were times when you recognized we were stagnate or burned out, and that recognization really helped us. Rather than just attempting to push through, which usually leads to poor code. Your awareness was amazing and I hope you continue to  use these characteristics as I know it will make you a great developer and leader.


#### IdeaBox

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/colehart/idea-box)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/ideabox.html)

Every developer has more ideas than time. As David Allen likes to say “the human brain is for creating ideas, not remembering them.” In this project, we’ll be building a simple application for recording and archiving our ideas (good and bad alike).

Throughout the project, one of our focuses will be on providing a fluid and responsive client-side interface. To this end, we’ll rely on JavaScript and jQuery to implement snappy filtering in the browser, and localStorage to persist our wonderful ideas between sessions.

#### Assessment Notes:

- [Detailed Notes and Scores](https://github.com/turingschool/front-end-submissions-public/blob/master/1806/mod-1/idea-box/cierra-cole.md)


#### Partner Feedback:

Hey Cole, you did a great job with talking things out while solving problems. I like your thought process and approach to problem solving. You worked pretty quickly which was impressive to see. Even though you were faster than me, you were willing to slow down and explain some things to me so that we were on the same page as partners. I appreciated this! You also took a very organized/methodical approach to assignments on the project (using Waffle.io), and that was helpful. I would say that you could probably take more breaks. Also, we probably could have done a better job of designating specific tasks on Waffle.io, so we both got our own assigned things to do. Although the driver-navigator pair programming approach was helpful as well sometimes. My biggest feedback here is take breaks and take care of yourself. 


#### 2DoBox-Pivot

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/colehart/2DoBox-Pivot)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/2DoBox-Pivot-Mod1.html)

Do you remember that project IdeaBox?…

We thought they were pretty great, but, we think it’s time to pivot those projects over to something we like to call 2DoBox.

You will be inheriting someone’s previous IdeaBox and pivoting it over to 2DoBox.


#### Assessment Notes:

- nice UI details
- filter is misbehqavaing
- very well executed UI, good work!
- make sure to maximize use of screen space on small screens, inputs and buttons get a little narrow
- good use of ARIA
- HTML is really tidy and clean
- a couple properties in CSS aren't really doing much and could be removed
- JS is very tidy, good job really hitting the 8-line function rule
- good at talking through and speaking to the code  
- [Detailed Notes and Scores](https://github.com/turingschool/front-end-submissions-public/blob/master/1806/mod-1/to-do-box/alexander-cole.md)


#### Partner Feedback:

I really appreciated how Cole was very open to discussion and conversation, we were both adept in talking out our code and that made collaboration much easier.  I loved how Cole was farther ahead of me in JavaScript, which put me in a position to learn a lot, and he was very helpful in teaching me things I did not know, bringing me up to speed.  I am a much better coder now, after having worked with Cole. The only coaching feedback that I would have for Cole would apply equally to myself.  We both had a propensity for refactoring, and then re-refactoring our code, and not really calling it done at any point.  This is a very nice "problem" to have, as it made our code very clean and functional, but I feel like we could have saved ourselves some stress if, in the future, we agree on a finite done date that neither of us are allowed to go beyond. 


## D: Community Participation

### Playing a Part

I supported Dina and Mark as the SAB Reps for our mod early on by telling them what it entails. I also participated in the Significant Others of Turing event and interviewed two candidates for the Student Success Coordinator with Dina at Joanne's bequest. I also helped others in class as I could, walked through mythical creatures with James and Kevin one day, and participated in three PD sessions.

------------------

## Final Review

### Notes

( Leave blanks for reviewers )

### Outcome

( Leave blanks for reviewers )
