# Portfolio Defense - 1711 FE - Ngoc Phan

[30 Day Plan](https://gist.github.com/nphan24/92a4429910f177decd98736dad1e91e2)

## What was your biggest achievement of the module?

One of my biggest achievements this mod is not only overcoming my anxiety to attack code challenges but grew to enjoy it. I have always had a mental block when it comes to challenges. I tend to have self-doubt that I could even solve the problem prior to seeing it. There were multiple times in class I find myself actually enjoying the challenges presented and also taking it upon myself to take on problems within a group. This is a big accomplishment for me. I have proved to myself that I am capable and smart enough to figure out some problems. I'm not sure where the mental block comes from, whether it is the fear of failure or something else. I overcame it. This leads me into my next achievement which is leading the gear up lesson "Winning Through Failure". I taught others failure is necessary to learn and improve. I surprised myself when I stood in front of the class and wasn't nervous. I've always been nervous presenting back in my school days but I'm fine with it now. I think Turing talks and little presentations in class helped me get comfortable standing in front of a class. It has also been more than six years since I last time I had to present for college so that could have something to do with it. 

## What provided you with the most struggle? What did you learn from that struggle?

One of the biggest challenges this mod was finding a comfortable position to code in. I resorted to finding the chairs that had lower settings to where I can put my belly underneath the table to I wouldn't have to stretch to reach my keyboard. Another struggle was in our capstone project. It was a struggle incorporating new technology with technologies we've already learned. We implemented new tech stacks such as react native, victory.js, react navigator, etc. We spent some time learning how to get our front and back end to speak. I found throughout this struggle, I had a lot of fun. There were multiple times where we as a group sat and tried different methods together. It felt great being able to solve problems together and move forward. I struggled but it was satisfying.

## What have you done this inning that sets you apart from your peers?

Not only was I able to get through Turing but I did so while making a baby. 

## How did your Mod 4 experience with this part of the stack (e.g. front-end technologies for BE students/back-end technologies for FE students) impact what you wanted to be doing after Turing? How did it reframe what you learned in previous modules?

Mod 4 was a lot of fun. It was great seeing how the backend and frontend spoke to each other. It helped me better understand the fetch calls and the information we receive. In mod 3, it seemed like the database was just this thing that give information when I call fetch. Now I have a better understanding of how the backend works. I believe this makes me a little more well rounded. I can now speak to the request response cycle. 

## What is the most important skill or lesson that you will take from Turing into your next job?

When I first entered Turing, I was told that Turing teaches you how to learn. I was skeptical of this because I have always been able to "learn". I didn't understand why this learning is different from any other type of learning I've ever experienced. What I take away now is I don't have to memorize everything. In my past life as a medical laboratory scientist, I memorized everything. Biology is a hard science where data does not change, but as a software developer, there are multiple ways to tackle a problem. What Turing teaches is the ability to look the answer up and incorporate it into what you are working on. I remember looking things up in mod 1 and was equally confused at what I was looking at, but now in mod 4, we looked everything up and had context to what we were looking at. I think the ability to get comfortable looking things up and not get discouraged is ultimately what I take away from Turing. 
