# (Chaz-Mykl Gormley) - (M1) Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

  'Module One' here at Turing was a re-introduction to being in "school", as an adult. Being fully aware of this period, the weight of what my time here means, fueled my hunger of obtaining an overall understanding and familiarity with the HTML, CSS & JavaScript/jQuery languages, in addition to the culture of the industry and environment I was joining. This module was an introduction to a new style/format of learning, and entirely new concepts - at an accelerated pace. Overall my goal was to ensure that I dedicated myself to absorbing everything that the Turing School, Staff, and Community had to offer - while also providing my own unique energy and intellect with those around me.   

## Rubric Scores

* **A: End-of-Module Assessment**: 2
* **B: Individual Work & Projects**: 2.5 
* **C: Group Work & Projects**: 2.5
* **D: Professional Skills**: Skip
* **E: Feedback & Community Participation**: 3.5

-----------------------

## A: End of Module Assessment

Progression/Completion
1: Developer struggles to implement solutions at the speed of an apprentice.

JavaScript Style
1: Developer writes code with unnecessary variables, operations, or steps which do not increase clarity

Workflow
2: Developer smoothly moves between tools, but is dependent on mouse-driven interaction

Collaboration
3: Developer lays out their thinking before attacking a problem and integrates feedback through the process

## B: Individual Work & Projects

The `Personal Portfolio` project that was assigned to us, as well as a personal website (http://www.blackweirdo.com) that I'm developing, are the two individual assignments that would encompass the work with only my fingerprints on them.

#### (Personal Portfolio)

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/CHZMKL/personal-portfolio)(https://chzmkl.github.io/personal-portfolio/)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/portfolio-first-draft.html)

When conceptualizing my `Personal Portfolio` a "minimalist" design style was something that I wished to adhere to. In addition to suffering from `Protanopia` which is a form of colorblindness, my preference for working with simple color schemes speak to my design aesthetic of simplicity. As time progresses in the program, I'm looking forward to implementing more elements of the teachings provided to this endeavor. After viewing personal portfolios created by various designers and developers, I anticipate being able to deliver a finished product that is truly unique, and indicative of the skills I've honed.



## C: Group Work & Projects

### Projects

Over the course of 6-weeks during `Module One` assigned classmates and myself completed multiple projects, that increased in difficulty and intensity. Below you will find the links to these projects as well as the results of the grades received for them, in accordance to the rubrics provided.

#### (Number Guesser)

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/CHZMKL/number-guesser)(https://imperialpint.github.io/number-guesser/)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/number-guesser.html)

`Number Guesser` was a great project to start off with, as far as pairing was/is concerned. Creating something that was not only challenging, but also fun and interactive showed me that I would enjoy the endeavor we were embarking on as students at `Turing`.

# Functional Expectations

(3.5): Application meets all of the functional expectations in Phase Two
  - updated score to 3.5.

# Fundamental JavaScript Style

3: Application shows strong effort towards organization, content, and refactoring

Notes: Extension till Friday to finish phase three for a 4 on Functional Expectations. Great job on pulling out and reusing code. Some room for refactoring and making methods more dynamic.
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
#### (Linked List)

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/CHZMKL/linked-list) (https://kswhyte.github.io/linked-list/)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/linked-list.html)

`Linked List` was a challenge, one that I'm looking forward to returning to on my own, so that I may hone my knowledge base of jQuery. All things considered, Kinan and I had a great time developing this project and it solidified our working relationship as classmates.

### Evaluator: Bree

## Functional Expectations

4: Application meets all of the functional expectations in Phase Three.

## Fundamental JavaScript Style

3: Application shows strong effort towards organization, content, and refactoring.

## Workflow
3: The developer makes a series of small, atomic commits that document the evolution of their application. There are no formatting issues in the code base.

## HTML Style
3: Developer solves structural problems with a balance between conciseness and clarity. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code and every tag and selector is doing.

## CSS Style
2: Your application has some duplication and minor bugs. Developer can speak to most choices made in the code and knows what every line is doing.
______________________________________________________________________________________________
#### (Ideabox)

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/CHZMKL/ideabox)(https://nnchambs.github.io/ideabox/)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/ideabox.html)

`Ideabox` was another project in which my understanding of JS hindered my ability to write it properly. Luckily I was paired with a partner who took the time to keep me abreast every step of the way, while providing additional education as far as the language was concerned. The areas in which I shined, HTML, CSS & git/github did aide us in completing the project overall, however, I do wish that my contributions in regards to JS were as valuable as my other endevours.

### Evaluator: Taylor

## Specification Adherence

2 - The application is in a usable state, but is missing 1 or more of the features outline in the specification above.

## User Interface

3.5 - The application has many strong pages/interactions, but a few holes in lesser-used functionality.
      Prepend vs Append

## JavaScript Style

2.5 - Your application has some duplication and minor bugs. Developer can speak to most choices made in the code and knows what every line is doing.

## Workflow

3.5 - The developer makes a series of small, atomic commits that document the evolution of their application. There are no formatting issues in the code base.
    Great second time for commits. Branches needs to be more specific.

#### (Game Time - Broncos Breakout)

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/CHZMKL/game-time)(https://chelseaskovgaard.github.io/game-time/)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/game-time.html)

`Broncos Breakout` was our take on the classic game `Brick Breaker`. Overall the fun came in not only applying football/Denver Broncos themes and styling to the game, but in getting more comfortable and confident writing JS. Moving forward I look forward to finding my own time to refactor a perfect UI/UX elements that can be built upon to make the game experience more engaging, as well as refactoring some of the code to be more succinct.

### Evaluator: Young Jhun

- good test setup. Would like to see that come together
- test set up great senario  but could improve with understanding how a function changes an objects value.
- OO logic is looking good. would like to see that solidified More
# Functional Expectations

3 - Application is fully playable without crashes or bugs

# User Interface

3.5 - The application has many strong pages/interactions, but a few holes in lesser-used functionality.

# Testing

3 - Project has a running test suite that tests and multiple levels but fails to cover some features. All functionality is covered by tests. The application makes some use of integration testing.

# JavaScript Style

3 - Application is thoughtfully put together with some duplication and no major bugs. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code is doing.

# Workflow

4 - The developer effectively uses Git branches and many small, atomic commits that document the evolution of their application.

# Code Sanitation

4 - Zero complaints

## E: Feedback and Community Participation

### Giving Feedback

`Andrew Crist`
Working with Señor Crist was a great introduction to peer-pairing, and completing an assignment as a member of a group. `Number Guesser` was our mods first group project and a great way to learn about collaborative work. Andrew and I managed to put together a great finished product as well as gain understanding about new methods such as `git`+`github` and grasping new languages i.e JS. Overall Andrew was, and will continue to be a great cohort mate for anyone to work with moving forward. His willingness to explain the nuances of code, and work at a pace that benefits others is extremely valuable, and speaks to his overall professionalism and character.
__________________________________________________________________________

`Kinan Whyte`
Kinan provided more than just insight and assistance with the projects and work assigned during `Module 1`, he was also a good friend during times of doubt, and overall a great person to be around - whether on campus or in social settings. Having experienced the `Back-End Program`, Kinan provided insight into how to succeed while here at `Turing` and maintain a positive school/life balance. Our time working together was during the `Linked List` assignment, during which I was still attempting to grasp the JS language. Knowing this, Kinan was extremely patient and willing to take “baby steps” in reference to aiding me in understanding the “How” and “What” of the task at hand. Above all else, Kinan made the transition into this new period of life easier than expected, as he provided not only assistance in a school setting, but also the camaraderie that one may seek when in an unfamiliar environment.
___________________________________________________________________________

`Nick Chambers`
During Mod 1 Nick and I ended up working together on the `Ideabox` assignment, which proved to be quite the task. Over the week that we had the assignment, which included a weekend, we spent much time at `The Blakement` attempting to solve logical puzzles via JS. Sadly, I wasn’t much help outside of the HTML & CSS realm, but Nick did his best to keep me in the game mentally, explaining the complexities of the code we were writing, and providing great insight during our Driver/Navigator sessions. Nick’s positive attitude towards grasping concepts still foreign to us, as well as his patience in regards to my understanding of exactly what we were attempting to do, was critical during our time together. His dedication to submitting not only a good product, but one that is fully functional is a testament to his overall work ethic. Future classmates who pair with Nick will benefit greatly from their time with Nick, and I look forward to working with him again in the future.
___________________________________________________________________________

`Chelsea Skovgaard`
Weeks 5 & 6 of Module 1 were the most trying, as well as the most rewarding. Much of the reward comes from the work that Chelsea and I completed during our time collaborating on the `Game Time` project we undertook: `Broncos Breakout` aka `Brick Breaker`. Entering this stretch of the Mod my JS skills, and knowledge base are admittedly not where I want them to be, however working with Chelsea has greatly aided my growth in this area. Assigning tasks, and dividing a project into sections, in order to complete the necessary components of it - was a method we began to perfect as time progressed. A key component of collaborative work is communication, and our work together helped to solidify and further develop these skills. Overall, our time together was vital in terms of both growth of skill-set and personal development.
____________________________________________________________________________
### Being a Community Member

`From Andrew Crist`
t was a pleasure to work with Chaz on Number Guesser. This was our first project as students at Turing and the project presented a lot of challenges. Neither of us knew where to start when it came to putting code ‘on the page’, how to communicate effectively while coding, or how to code in pairs. As amateurs, we entered the project with a lot of hiccups, but Chaz persevered, stepped up to the challenge, and pushed hard through all the barriers we faced. Chaz is an adaptable leader who will be successful with any project he faces.
____________________________________________________________________________
`From Nick Chambers`
Chaz and I worked together on Ideabox, and we shared what ended up being the most difficult challenge of module one together. Chaz had an amazingly positive attitude and a willingness to go all in on the project. While he was admittedly still working to grasp some fundamentals of Javascript, Chaz never hesitated to give 100% and do whatever he could to help tackle the problem at hand. He easily and quickly managed all the CSS styling for the project and was also a great communicator. I felt like we were always on the same page. We spent tons of time talking through the problems Ideabox presented and tried to break them into manageable pieces. Looking back, I wish we would have been more proactive with seeking help from instructors and module two students earlier in the process. Ideabox presented us with a large amount of both conceptual and technical challenges and there's no person who I would have rather gone through that experience with.
____________________________________________________________________________
`From Chelsea Skovgaard`
Chaz and I worked on game time together. Initially, there were some rocky patches but after discussing our needs and expectations mid-way through the project, we got on the same page and there was smooth sailing. Chaz’s strengths are empathy and positivity - he is great at supporting people and remaining calm even during stressful situations. By being assertive in his learning and taking ownership of parts of projects, his skills as a developer will continue to grow. I was also impressed by his dedication to his learning during our project often staying late into the night and taking advantage of pairing sessions.
____________________________________________________________________________
`From Tommasina of 1605/Pahlka Posse`
Chaz's passion for social justice makes him a natural fit and great addition for Pahlka posse. I find him well-spoken and thoughtful regarding political issues which discussed without care, could easily be polarizing. He skillfully shares his perspective by weaving in references to what others have said in the conversation before him, and I've witnessed this lead to very natural consensus in our group. He has served as our notetaker this module, and these notes have kept us on track in meetings because of his care around this task. I am excited to see where his technical pursuits bring him.
_____________________________________________________________________________
### Playing a Part

Early into my time at Turing I discovered what I've described as a sub-genre: Civic Tech. Prior to enrolling, or even discovering Turing School, my passion has always lived in the realm of doing work that serves the community from which I come from. Understanding the importance and vital nature that "code" plays in our society today, is what led me to the `Pahlka Posse`, which in turn introduced me to the world of `Civic Tech`. Creating anything for more than just monetary gain is not an easy feat, in a world that thrives off of capital and consumerism, however, `Pahlka Posse` showed me that there are many others who feel the way that I do, and wish to develop solutions for the problems we face - by utilizing the tools available to us. During my time with the members of the posse, I pitched the idea of developing an app that focused on "healthy food options" in the spirit of cooperative economics. From there, as a group we decided to develop an app that is part education, part entertainment in the form of a game for the youth. `Edutainment` as an idea, was made popular by KRS-One, and it is a mindset that I intended to share with my posse-mates, and I believe we're headed down the right path. Being apart of `Pahlka Posse` not only aided me academically, but also in the spirit of developing bonds with like minded individuals. Moving forward I anticipate furthering the bonds, and work that we've begun during my short time with `Pahlka Posse`, as well as the community as whole. As `Module One` comes to a close, across the country there are events that are sparking conversations that aren't normally discussed, in open forums. There was a moment recently in a now discarded Slack Channel in which we as a school seemed to be opening up these topics for discussion. While I continue to learn and grown within the community here, I hope that these instances continue to occur, so that we can come together not only as a community centered around tech, but also as people all walking the same earth, breathing the same air.   

------------------

## Final Review

### Notes

### Outcome

Will repeat mod1
