# Front-End, Back-End, Turing and Beyond

Turing has been a roller-coaster.  I entered the program immediately following retirement and had high expectations.  I was motivated and confident.  Over the course of the next six months, that motivation and confidence would waiver.  I had shining moments and I had failures.  At the pinnacle of those failures stood Mod 3, which would put a large dent in my confidence.  From week 2 until the moment I was told that I was moving on to Mod 4, it was a continuous case of catch-up.  I barely made it through iteration 1 in swAPI box and it wouldn't get any easier from there.  I spent the rest of the module convinced that there was no recovering from such a disastrous assignment and that I would ultimately repeat.  

On a more positive note, through that struggle I began to recognize my identity as a software developer.  I was a great problem-solver who could think outside the box and I realized that I was a pretty good designer.

The constant struggle in mod 3 made me question if I could endure another 6 weeks of Mod 4.  However, through the process of completing the final module, I was able to regain my confidence through a series of successful projects, challenges and personal assignments.  My success in Mod 4 has returned my confidence and helped me feel like a software developer.  As evidenced by my performance, I know that I can use my newfound technical knowledge and problem-solving skills to conquer any challenge placed in front of me.

On the other side of the token, my biggest weaknesses remained my biggest weaknesses.  I still found it difficult to respond to technical questions that required thoughtful answers and to effectively articulate technical concepts.  Also, to this day, I find it difficult to remember proper syntax and often have to reference docs to ensure proper code.  

The biggest struggles I faced in Mod 4 were health, wellness, and motivation.  In short, I burned out.  Turing has taken a toll on the relationship I have with my family.  My wife and son are what drive me and what keeps my sanity in check.  As my closeness with them goes, so goes my happiness.  In order to keep a healthy balance at home, my drive at school suffered significantly.  As graduation nears and I look forward to mending the damage done over the past six months, I am made aware that I must maintain this balance preemptively and continuously, rather than wait until after the damage has been done.  When I start the back-end program in August, I will use this experience to ensure I maintain my wellness throughout the next 6-month marathon. 

When I look back and ask what sets me apart from my peers, the answer that comes to mind is that I'm just getting started.  As my peers graduate Turing and continue their career search, my educational growth will continue.  They are looking for jobs, but I am looking for more learning.  Mod 4 touches on so many new tools and technologies, but I don't believe any of us could call ourselves masters.  I want to dig deeper and be able to implement these tools as effectively and efficiently as I have learned to develop in JavaScript and React.

I am looking forward to spending the next inning learning new technologies and applying them to the projects in my portfolio.  When I enter the back-end program, I want to have a complete, polished portfolio that I would be proud to show my peers and potential employers.

In spite of the fact that I will not be entering the job market this summer, I have stood by my peers through our professional development.  As they strengthen their resumes, build their networks, and make themselves marketable assets; so do I.  I have engaged with numerous contacts in the Vegas Tech scene and have meetings scheduled with two influential CEOs/owners in Las Vegas this summer.  And I'm just getting started.

Finally getting to work with back-end technologies has reinvigorated my desire to be a complete developer...both front-end and back-end.  I am excited to hone my front-end skills while continually integrating back-end principles, languages and frameworks.  I intend to start the back-end pre-work immediately following graduation and finding ways of incorporating what I've learned into my portfolio.  My end-goal for Turing is to enter my new career as well-educated, well-rounded and well-connected as I can possibly be.

[30-Day Plan](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/r/week/2018/6/11)