# First Last - M2 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

What did you set out to accomplish this module? Were you successful?

I set out to learn Rails like the back of my hand. Now I am definitely not an _expert_ in Rails, but I do feel confident enough in spinning up most app concepts. I've learned the MVC model, Rails helpers, the HTTP cycle, and more explicit RSpec testing.

What did you struggle most with this module? What did you learn from that struggle?

I struggled with sessions the most. More specifically, cart sessions and  how to translate the contents of that session into the database on checkout. I feel as though I do have a solid grasp on the _concept_ of it, but for the actual implementation into the codebase I still feel a bit shaky on.

## Projects

What were your favorite projects this module? Least favorite? Why?

My favorite project had to be Want2Code, the mini rails project I did with Joel. From the beginning we knew exactly what our vision for the final product was, and our workflow and gitflow rose exponentially as we worked over those few days. Out of all the projects we've done the final version of Want2Code we submitted makes me proud to show it off.

What did you learn from your independent projects?

I am a horrible designer. The frontend portion of my personal project JobTracker was absolutely awful, and I am ashamed of that. But due to the time constraint I spent most of my time working on the backend.

What did you learn from your paired projects?

I work very well with people I enjoy spending time with. I learned the ettiquete for Git workflow between >2 people and reviewing pull requests before merging.

## Community

What was your favorite Gear Up? Least favorite? Why?

My favorite was the Johari Window gear up. Seeing what others thought of me via adjectives really empowered me to work on my weaknesses, but also gave me confidence for the strengths people said I possesed. My least favorite Gear Up was the Cold Outreach GearUp. For me, most of the ettiquete taught during that class seemed to be common sense for me. Plus, I had already completed that Gear Up last mod.

How did you contribute to the Turing community this module?

I really bonded with my cohort this module. I befriended most of the people within it, and offered my expertise in topics some students were feeling uncomfortable with. I also helped the Mod 4 Privacy Tech Gear Up in their presentations offering my opinions and facts I remembered from my last exposé on privacy + metadata from my Science Fair project in High School.

What would you like to do to contribute next module?

I would like to participate in wrap-up a lot more.

## Self-Assessment Scores

Fill in how you would grade yourself from 1-4 in the following categories this module.

| Category                     | Score |
| -----------------------------| ----- |
| **Individual Projects**      |   3   |
| **Group Projects**           |   4   |
| **Professional Development** |   3   |
| **Community**                |  3.5  |
| **Final Written**            |  3.5  |
| **Final Timed**              |  3.5  |