## What was your biggest achievement of the module?
  - Going into mod 4 I was really excited to dig more into Node.JS, but even though I didn't use it on my capstone I really enjoyed using Java/Spring for my quantified self wildcard. I wouldn't say I know it well enough to put on a resume but getting the exposure was super valuble. I did struggle with it, particularily in the testing aspect of things, but nonetheless it was great to work in Java again, and particularily apply it to something more than just an algorithmic assignment in a CS course. Additionally, I loved the opportunity to take the product ideas I have had (such as the open home biding tool) and actually build a mock-up for it, I'm definitely excited to jump on turning those into real products.

## What provided you with the most struggle? What did you learn from that struggle?
  - My constant habit of biting off more than I can chew, but that may be due to my habit of procrastination. I'll still get things done, but I've definitely realized how much of a struggle things are if I put them off instead of working on them in smaller increments over time. That being said however, even if I am not particularily proud of what I delievered for my capstone (I'm sure I could have delivered much much more), I have no intentions of abandoning the projects post-Turing, as I have gained so many skills from my time at Turing, and I am super excited to continue to apply them.

## What have you done this inning that sets you apart from your peers?
  - React, react, react! Granted, other people have explored react as well, but after using React to a more limited degree in mod 3, I was super excited to really put my foot down and use react to build a whole frontend for my capstone. Diving into React was a blast, and seeing as how I would love to go into a full stack position the chance to work with it has been super helpful so that on the job I won't be totally clueless. 
  
## How did your Mod 4 experience with this part of the stack (e.g. front-end technologies for BE students/back-end technologies for FE students) impact what you wanted to be doing after Turing? How did it reframe what you learned in previous modules?
  - I realized that I really love doing full stack! Even though I'm in the backend program, I love the fact that we have full reign to implement frontend technologies and explore the development on that side. My next step of course is testing the frontend scripts (React with Enzyme anyone?). Going into Turing, during the application process, I was unsure whether or not I wanted to focus on the frontend or the backend, and now I realize it's both! I know I still have plenty to learn and play around with on the frontend side of things, but the skills that we have learned at Turing have really given me the confidence to explore those on my own and with whatever company I end up with. 
  
## What is the most important skill or lesson that you will take from Turing into your next job?
  - Hands down, the ability to take a new technology and run with it. Even beyond technology, skills in general. Given that we are encouraged to explore (within reason) technologies beyond those explicitly taught, it really gave me the freedom to work with frameworks like React and get experience using that to build frontend applications. Knowing how to approach something like that, be it on the job or off, is great. More of an, "I know how to approach this" feeling rather than an "I don't know where to start" mentality.

## 30 Day Plan
https://gist.github.com/kolyaventuri/5ca4fefdb665a8da0b303729ce962ac7
