Hedy Woo - Module 1 Portfolio

## Individual

### Your Mission
Coming to Turing, my hope was to learn good foundational coding skills and progressively hone those skills to become a competent and an employable
programmer at the end of this program.  Given I had no programming experience, I'm pleased with how much I've learned this module.

### End of Module Assessment

Notes & scores from your assessment rubric

1. Ruby Syntax & API

* __3__: Developer is able to comfortably implement solutions in Ruby

2. Ruby Style

* __3__: Developer writes code that is easy to follow

3. Blocks & Enumerations

* __3__: Developer demonstrates understanding of blocks and can effectively use enumerable methods

4. Testing

* __3__: Developer uses tests to guide development in small chunks

5. Workflow

* __3__: Developer demonstrates comfort with their tools and makes some use of keyboard shortcuts

6. Collaboration

* __3__: Developer lays out their thinking before attacking a problem and integrates feedback through the process

### Attendance

No missed sessions.

### Work


#### Jungle Beat

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/thePaulista/jungle_beat.git)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/curriculum/blob/a0ccb625762f2ead4d0bcf554c88daeda1784eea/source/projects/jungle_beat.markdown)

This assignment was a fast introduction to data structures in programming, and just in programming in general.
The premise of the project was based on linking a collection of single nodes that hold data to another node.  As with other projects, heavy focus was placed on TDD and functionality.  

Evaluation comments:
Testing is overall pretty solid; would like to still see more of the "trivial" cases (empty list, single node, etc)
jungle beat itself is pretty clean and minimal; mostly just passing through commands to the underlying linked list
This is a good implementation of 80% of the project because there are ultimately small gaps in lots of the functionality
testing is really the big savior for these - most of the gaps we find are around missing edge cases or individual / empty lists, etc

Evaluation Scores:

Functional Expectations 2
TDD 2
Encapsulation 3
Ruby Style and Fundamentals 3
Looping / Recursion 3

### Enigma


* [GitHub URL] (http://github.com/thepaulista/enigma)

* [Original Assignment] (https://github.com/turingschool/curriculum/blob/a0ccb625762f2ead4d0bcf554c88daeda1784eea/source/projects/enigma.markdown)

Project description

This assignment was an exercise in logic and code construction, as well as an intro to the large File I/O class found
in ruby.  It was super fun, as well as a confidence booster for me.  The project required to encrypt, decrypt and crack a message using offsets and rotations, a-la Alan Turing's Enigma cracking machine.  

Instructor: Tess

Evaluation Comments:

Notes:

Evaluation Rubric

The project will be assessed with the following rubric:

Overall Functionality
3: Application encrypts, decrypts, and cracks files as described

Fundamental Ruby & Style
3: Application shows some effort toward organization but still has 6 or fewer long methods (> 8 lines) and needs some refactoring.

Test-Driven Development
3: Application uses tests to exercise core functionality, but has some gaps in coverage or leaves edge cases untested.

Breaking Logic into Components
3: Application has multiple components with defined responsibilities but there is some leaking of responsibilities

## Team
Hedy and Thomas Pickett
### Projects

#### HTTP Yeah You Know Me

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/thePaulista/http_yeah_you_know_me)
* [Original Assignment]()

Project Description:

Mission was to build a ruby web server.  I learned about different testing gems and alternative ways toTDD. It was also our first paired project with
another classmate.


Assessors: Josh and Lovisa and Nate

The project will be assessed with the following rubric:

## Overall Functionality

Score: 3

* Have:
  0. Hello World
  1. Diagnostics
  2. Supporting Paths, different counts on hello / total
  3. Supports params

## Fundamental Ruby & Style

Score: 3

* Introduce abstractions to remove repetition
* Watch indentation
* Don't have old code in your repo :)

## Test-Driven Development

Score: 4

* Tests all pass
* Excellent names on the tests
* Tested shutdown... mostly

## Breaking Logic into Components

Score: 3

* I love your thread!
* Good job separating routing into controller and not server
* Push parsing down into some other class (maybe "Parser" or "Request" or something)


#### Black Thursday

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/thePaulista/black_thursday.git)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/curriculum/blob/master/source/projects/black_thursday.markdown)

Project Description:

This assignment is an exercise in processing large data to make meaningful relationship useful in ecommerce.

(evaluation comments)

(evaluation scores)

(feedback to me)

## Community

NodeBots attendance on 1/14 at Turing (I plan on attending more regularly in the future).

### Giving Feedback

I found a brother and friend in Chad. Our common interest in literature was only the beginning of a good friendship, but pairing together only solidified it.  I have enjoyed working and learning from Chad throughout the module.  We screenshared during the holiday season, doing exercism and honing our deficiencies by tacking other coding challenges.  I have certainly learned a lot from his thoughtful approach, and persevering style. I know I’ll continue to look up to him to build more character in my coding style.

### Being a Community Member

from Chad Ellison:
Working with Hedy throughout module 1, it is clear that she has a great work ethic and is an amazing researcher. As far as I know, Hedy is always working on a project or exercise when she is not at Turing. Moreover, when we pair together she has researched additional ways to solve problems and beyond what was included in the teaching. Hedy's playful personality and drivenness to learn makes her a great pairing partner. I always learn a lot and enjoy doing it when we pair.

from Matt Packer:
“While pairing with Hedy, I came to realize that she is one of the most driven and insightful people I have ever met. Her determination is contagious and she demonstrates significant leadership skills. Also, I really enjoyed how she would communicate not only how she planned to improve while at Turing, but also how I could do the same. I found her work ethic encouraging, and really appreciated her helping me work through concepts that I had difficulty understanding."

from Alireza Andersen:
2 weeks prior to the beginning of cohort 1511. Nick Dorans, Hedy and I studied daily to try grasp a understanding of what we all were getting ourselves into. Hedy took the initiative and found fun challenging projects that tested our beginner skills to new levels. Her continuous never give up attitude and dedication throughout the module has help not only myself but many other 1511 students over the stress of confusion and feeling lost in the mist. Hedy is a great asset to our cohort and I look forward to her success, she will be a change maker in this industry!

from Matt Pindell:
Hedy has redefined both how I conceptualize the structure of the programs I write and, more importantly, how I view work ethic as it relates to programming. I've been blown away at her drive, her skill, and her viewpoint on what matters when learning programming ('failing fast' and learning the fundamentals). I not only hope that we get to work together again, but I hope to emulate her attitude on all future projects.

### Playing a Part

Attended morning warm ups with the Grace Hopper posse

## Review

### Notes

* people seem to love working with and being around you - hope to see you
increasing this and spreading your energy around the cohort

### Outcome - PASS

* __A End-of-Module Assessment:__ 3
* __B Individual Work & Projects:__ 3
* __C Group Work & Projects:__ 3
* __D Community Participation:__ 3
* __E Peer & Instructor Feedback:__ 3
