First Last - M2 Portfolio
Areas of Emphasis

What did you set out to accomplish this module? Were you successful?
In this module, I wanted to learn how to build web based rails applications. To a degree, I believe I was somewhat successful in achieving this goal. There are some elements on Module 2 that I do not feel comfortable with, such as adding a cart to an ecommerce site or building a joins table through the has many through association.

What did you struggle most with this module? What did you learn from that struggle?

I'm having an issue being burnt out. I'm not really where I need to be mentally and emotionally. I think I need to take stock in why I'm here and create some type of structure to deal with the program. I guess I haven't ever been in a rigorous program like Turing and I'm not adapting to it the way I should be. The past 4.5 months I've been going through Turing to get through it, without thinking about how I can maximize the full value of Turing's educational process. I'm going to take the break week to recharge and create a plan for success. 

Projects

What were your favorite projects this module? Least favorite? Why?

Bike shop was my favorite project in this mod since we got to use some ActiveRecord methods for database analysis. I'd say LittleShop was my least favorite because there's some areas of weakness that I have that were exposed while building the project (ie: Adding a cart / order joins table)

What did you learn from your independent projects?

I've learned that I learn better by pairing with someone throughout difficult elements of the project. A lot of the progress I made through working with errors and learning the relationships through the MVC model were made through pairing with cohort members or alumni. I have some issues with confidence and pattern awareness that are addressed through pairing.

What did you learn from your paired projects?

I would do best pairing with someone to get direction on how to tackle a problem.

Community

What was your favorite Gear Up? Least favorite? Why?

Strengths & Storytelling Part II was my favorite because it gave us time to work on elements of our story to improve it. I think cold outreach was my least favorite, I didn't really see the value in typing up a mock email for both warm and cold interaction.

How did you contribute to the Turing community this module?

I need to work on this more. I could benefit from helping Module 1 student with either Git workflow or pattern recognition.

What would you like to do to contribute next module?

I'd like to take better care of myself so I can give 100% to passing Module 2. I'm doing a disservice to my paired partner projects and my instructors by not trying my best.

Self-Assessment Scores

Fill in how you would grade yourself from 1-4 in the following categories this module.

Category	Score
Individual Projects	1/2
Group Projects	2/3
Professional Development	3
Community	2
Final Written	2/3
Final Timed 2
