# Paul Kim - M2 - 20180801 -- Portfolio



###### Areas of Emphasis

	- Set out to learn base level React, 
    - Be highly proficient in array/object prototypes
	- Be more social and open  

### Rubric Scores
- End-of-Module Assessment: 3.665
- Individual Work & Projects: 3.667
- Group Work & Projects: 3.6659
- Professional Skills: 3.1665
- Community Participation: 3.5665
- End of Module Assessment
	- I passed 

### Individual Work & Projects
	- COMPLETE ME
		- Description: 
			- Autocomplete features are a very common convention for text inputs on search fields. For this project I developed a low level version of an auto complete system in JavaScript. 
		- Evaluation Comments: 
			- Good articulation and problem-solving process, though latches onto code a little too quickly. 
			- (Whiteboarding shouldn't include any code, be more high-level with it.) 
			- I'd like to see you move away from the keyboard a bit more after you start coding, and get back to talking through things/whiteboarding rather than continuing to write out code.
		- Evaluation Score: 
			- 3 - 3.5
		- Github URL: 
			- https://github.com/sojurner/Complete-me

### Group Work & Projects
#### Game-Time

		- Description: 
			- Autocomplete features are a very common convention for text inputs on search fields. For this project I developed a low level version of an auto complete system in JavaScript. 
		- Evaluation Comments: 
			- Variable/method naming needs a little work. 
			- Some properties like keyPressed and stopped vs paused vs isGameOver 
        	- Adds a little confusion to understanding the code from an outsider's perspective.
        	- Some room for refactoring and moving methods/properties onto other classesdemonstration of OOP is mostly there, but could use a little clarification.
		- Evaluation Score: 
			- 3 - 3.5
		- Github URL: 
			- https://github.com/sojurner/game-time-1

#### Weatherly

		- Description: 
			- Built a weather application with ReactJS while implementing asynchronous javascript, and managing UI.  
		- Evaluation Comments: 
			- Update Card tests to use .text()
			- Remove querySelector method calls
			- Use a CurrentWeather component
		- Evaluation Score: 
			- None
		- Github URL: 
			- https://github.com/Haub/weatherly



## Community Participation
	
    - I went out of my way to be more open and social in Mod 2.
    - Attended group study sessions and helped anyone who came to me with a question
	- I am now a new SAB representative starting Mod 3

## Final Review

### Notes


### Outcome
