# (Your Name) - (M1/M2/M3/M4) Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis
I wanted to learn to code and hopefully down the road to hopefully make a difference to someone in the future. I was hoping to come out of my shell more than I did. But I did come out more and was able to reflect more about myself than I have in the past, not quite where I want to be but I'm getting there.

## Rubric Scores

* **A: End-of-Module Assessment**: 1
* **B: Individual Work & Projects**: 1
* **C: Group Work & Projects**: 3
* **D: Professional Skills**: 2
* **E: Community Participation**: 1

-----------------------

## A: End of Module Assessment

I think I fail everything until proven otherwise. I am hopeful that I passed, I'm  sure that I know way more than when I started but something I need to work on is my self-worth/self-confidence.


## B: Individual Work & Projects
  I started out feeling that I would prefer the Individual projects would be better suited to me based off of my previous experience in group projects. However, I found that collaboration is very helpful.

Jungle Beats-

  https://github.com/mikeyduece/jungle_beats
  http://backend.turing.io/module1/projects/jungle_beat

  This was a fun project once I got the hang of it. And once I realized that we were basically writing methods that already exist made it more interesting, because I really like trying to understand things that way.

>Fundamental Ruby & Style - 3
>Looping or Recursion - 3
>TDD - 2
>Encapsulation / Breaking Logic into Components - 3
>Functional Expectations -2

Battleship

  https://github.com/mikeyduece/battleship
  http://backend.turing.io/module1/projects/battleship

  I had a hard time with this one starting out. I started to get a better feel for what needed to be done towards the end and ran out of time. This project really opened my eyes to the concept of pairing and asking for help. I didn't ask for hardly any help on this project to my detriment.

>Fundamental Ruby & Style- 1
>Enumerables & Collections- 3
>TDD- 2
>Git Workflow- fail
>REPL Interface- 1
>Breaking Logic into Components- 3
>Functional Expectations- 1

## C: Group Work & Projects

Night Writer

  http://backend.turing.io/module1/projects/night_writer
  https://github.com/mdevoe12/night_writer

  I was really surprised at how much i enjoyed working with a partner. Every other time I've been in a group project, it's been horrible. But being able to bounce ideas off of someone and then implementing them was a lot of fun.

>Fundamental Ruby & Style - 3
>TDD - 1
>Encapsulation / Breaking Logic into Components - 2
>Functional Expectations -2

Black Thursday

  https://github.com/mikeyduece/black_thursday
  https://github.com/turingschool-examples/black_thursday

  This is a pretty fun project. I haven't felt too over my head the entire time. Of course there were times where I do, but that's what we're here for. I feel so good about this project that I'm waiting for the other shoe to drop. I like the practical application of it.


## D: Professional Skills
  These were a new concept for me. The self-reflection was very uncomfortable. It makes me get into my own head which is never good. I *am* working on it and have gotten better. The environment here is very helpful in that regard. My fellow classmates have been very supportive with that.

### Gear Up
#### (Session Name)

https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/m1_citizenship/session_1_growth_mindset.markdown

>I understand this one but for me this has always been a do as I say, not as I do concept. I know I can learn just about anything given enough time/resources. But I've always had this complex where I feel I'm one of the worst ones at whatever I'm doing.

https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/m1_citizenship/session_2_getting_better_at_difficult_things.md

>Again, this is another example of me doing a do as I say not as I do. I know I need to take breaks and whatnot, but I *feel* like I'm going to lose momentum when I do that. While at the same time, I know that if I took a break I might be better able to finish the task that I'm on.

https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/m1_citizenship/session_3_intro_extro_ambivert_styles.markdown

>This was a tough week for me. A few other things happened, but this was the one with the improv. Other than the normal butterflies, I am generally pretty comfortable in front of crowds. I competed regularly in football, wrestling, BJJ, art show, etc. But when you ask me to be creative on the fly is when I panic. But again, my classmates were great.

https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/m1_citizenship/session_4_personal_story.markdown

>This was difficult not just for me, but for my group as well in regards to the lens aspect. We weren't really sure what that meant. With everything else, our group was all pretty similar to each other in our reasons for coming to Turing. For me, my insecurities really kept me from sharing as much as I should.

https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/m1_citizenship/session_5_debugging_gender_gap.md

>This wasn't really a surprise to me. My wife likes to tell me that I'm not like most guys in that regard. For me personally, I have seen that in the world, but I never really adopted that mindset. I was raised by a single mother for a lot of years and despite our dissagreements now, I never thought anything that happened was because of her gender. And then I met my wife, who has a master's degree and doesn't really take crap from anyone and her mother has a doctorate in sociology. So I've never *not* been around strong smart women and that has really influenced my world view on that subject.

MOD 4 Student Gear Up

>We covered the UBI 2. It was very interesting. I am very much in favor of it. Even though there is a lot more testing that needs to be done, I believe that it would truly allow the human race take the next evolutionary step. However, there would need to be an evolutionary step in human conscious for that to take effect because of the current culture of greed that pervades the entire planet.

## E: Community Participation

### Playing a Part

I'm not really sure on this one. The community has been great to me. It's a really great place. I know that I've tried my best to reciprocate what I could to other students that I've seen having a hard time. But lets not forget....pretzels! Haha.
------------------

## Final Review

### Notes

( Leave blanks for reviewers )

### Outcome

( Leave blanks for reviewers )
