# Pat Wey - M4 Portfolio

## Individual

### Areas of Emphasis

My goals for module 4 were to continue building confidence as a developer and transition to working at a more sustainable rate.

### Work

#### Scale-Up

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/patwey/we_work_remotely_jobs)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/lesson_plans/blob/master/ruby_04-apis_and_scalability/looking_for_project.markdown)

For the Scale-Up project, I built a gem that scrapes the WeWorkRemotely RSS feed.

**Comments**
- Yay for gems! Yay for new job scrapers!

**Scores**
Total: 150/150

* Packaged Ruby Gem - 40 points
* Participation - 50 points
* Risk Taking and Creativity - 60 points

#### Real Time

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/patwey/real_time)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/curriculum/blob/master/source/projects/real_time.markdown)

For the real time project, I chose to build a real time polling application.

**Comments**
- Strong project
- Good use of abstraction on the backend
- Testing is really comprehensive
- Code is very explicit and well organized
- The application is pleasant to use

**Scores**
Total: 199/200

* Concept and Features - 100 points
* Code Quality - 30 points
* Client-Side Application - 30 points
* Test-Driven Development - 30 points
* Interface - 5 points
* Workflow - 4 points

## Team

### Projects

#### Game Time

* [GitHub URL](github.com/patwey/slime-volleyball)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/lesson_plans/blob/master/ruby_04-apis_and_scalability/gametime_project.markdown)

Torie and I reincarnated Slime Volleyball over the course of 10 days using HTML5 and JS.

**Comments**
- Application is fully playable and exceeds the expectations set by instructors
- The application has many strong pages/interactions, but a few holes in lesser-used functionality
- Project has a running test suite that tests and multiple levels but fails to cover some features. All controller actions are covered by tests. The application makes some use of integration testing.
- Application is thoughtfully put together with some duplication and no major bugs. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code is doing.
- The developer effectively uses Git branches and many small, atomic commits that document the evolution of their application.
- The output from JSHint shows zero complaints

**Scores**
Total: 135/150

* Functional Expectations - 35 points
* User Interface - 10 points
* Testing - 25 points
* Javascript Style - 25 points
* Workflow - 25 points
* Code Sanitation - 15 points

**Feedback**
"Working with Pat on GameTime was a pleasure. He was incredibly motivated the whole time and is a strong developer. He pushed me to work my hardest and helped me stay motivated. I would be thrilled to have him as a co-worker, because he does an incredible job with any challenge and is a lot of fun to work with."

#### Posse Challenges

[College Scorecard](https://github.com/brianrip/posse_challenges/tree/master/college_scorecard)

[Codebreaker](https://github.com/thompickett/codebreaker)

[People Database](https://github.com/brianrip/posse_challenges/tree/master/people_db)

[Enumerables](https://github.com/Salvi6God/Enumerables)

## Community

### Giving Feedback

"Jason has been a pleasure to have in this cohort. I've learned a lot about humility, honesty and hard work by working alongside him throughout the past 6 months. Technically speaking, I'm most impressed by his curiosity and his fearlessness when it comes to tackling hairy technical problems. He's applied this to his interest in DevOps, and he's emerged as the go-to human for DevOps questions in our cohort. As a Canadian hockey player might say, he’s a legend and a beauty."

"Working with Torie on Slime Volleyball was great.  She was really effective in helping to manage the project on a big picture level, and kept me from spending the entire two weeks thinking about ball physics. Her commitment to code quality and design is special and had a noticeable effect in every area of our project.  Her high standards pushed me to be at my best, and resulted in some of the best code I've written/paired on since I've been at school. She's an incredible developer."

### Being a Community Member

"Just like in his previous hockey career, Pat is the MVP of our cohort. I've been able to level up in numerous ways by working with him on a variety of projects. He always suggests an unconventional yet extremely effective approach to solving any given problem. Not only is he a superstar coder, but has the personality to match. I would not think twice about teaming up with Pat during the most important of projects, and hope I get the chance again in the future.”

"Working with Pat on GameTime was a pleasure. He was incredibly motivated the whole time and is a strong developer. He pushed me to work my hardest and helped me stay motivated. I would be thrilled to have him as a co-worker, because he does an incredible job with any challenge and is a lot of fun to work with."

### Playing a Part

* I was the anchor for my posse this module
* I gave Sunny an impromptu lesson on recursion (whiteboarding included!)

## Protocol Deliverables

* [Pull Request for the Creact Tutorial](https://github.com/applegrain/creact/pull/17)

* [Slime Vollyball README](https://github.com/patwey/slime-volleyball)

* [DTR Memo for Slime Volleyball](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ah9H_Ogmo5j7klgDZs0bZ6fb8N59Rv3dMf0Jl1UlD0k/edit)

* [WeWorkRemotely Gem](https://rubygems.org/gems/we_work_remotely_jobs) (done instead of a blog post)

## Goals for Future Pat

[Developer Growth Goals](https://gist.github.com/patwey/7ec38877f667f3ef4a56)

## Review
