# Keji Amos - M1 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

I wanted to build upon my existing knowledge and understanding of HTML, CSS and Javscript while
learning jQuery.

## Rubric Scores

*   **A: End-of-Module Assessment**: Pass
*   **B: Individual Work & Projects**: Pass
*   **C: Group Work & Projects**: Pass
*   **D: Professional Skills**: Pass
*   **E: Feedback & Community Participation**: Pass

-----------------------

## A: End of Module Assessment

(Notes & scores from your assessment rubric)


## B: Individual Work & Projects

Individual projects were good and I enjoy being able
to work at your own pace. It's good for confirming
your knowledge.

#### Number Guesser

*   [GitHub URL](https://github.com/kamos1/number-guesser)
*   [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/number-guesser.html)

Description: This application requires the user to guess a randomly generated number between 1 and 100. Each of the previous guesses is displayed underneath the guess input field. Depending on the guess the game will display "too low" if the guess is too low, "too high" if the guess is too high and "BOOM" if the guess is correct. If the user guesses the correct answer an alert is displayed telling the user that the range has been increased by 10 on both sides. If the user is struggling to guess the right answer they can click the reset button and a new number will be generated.

Evaluation Comments:
- Work on the alignment and spacing to more closely match the integrity of the original comp
- More markup than you need, should look to refactor
- Refactor the header section with an h1 and a couple of spans
- Some redundant CSS (check out those inputs)
- Some good breakout of individual functions, but recommend refactoring your checkGuess function. It's a multi-nested if/else. Break it apart and go check out JS case statements.

Evaluation Scores:
### UX/UI Expectations

- 3: Application shows strong effort towards matching the comp, but some details have been missed. Any extensions are simple, clean design, content organization, and well thought out experience and user interactions.

### Functional Expectations

- 4: Application meets all of the functional expectations in Phase Three

### Fundamental HTML

- 3:  Developer solves structural problems with a balance between conciseness and clarity. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code and every tag and selector is doing and has incorporated accessibility best practices.

### Fundamental CSS

- 3:  Application is thoughtfully put together with some duplication and no major bugs. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of CSS is doing.

### Fundamental JavaScript

- 3: Application shows strong effort towards organization, content, and proper syntax

## C: Group Work & Projects

### Projects

(Intro)

#### Linked List

*   [Github URL](https://github.com/kamos1/linked-list)
*   [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/linked-list.html)

Description: Linked List was a project where the user entered a title and url. Upon submission a card was to be created and the user should have been able to mark the card as read and delete it.

(evaluation comments)

Evaluation Scores:
## Evaluator: Bree

### Functional Expectations

- 4: Application meets all of the functional expectations in Phase Three.

### Fundamental JavaScript Style

- 3: Application shows strong effort towards organization, content, and refactoring.

### Workflow

- 3: The developer makes a series of small, atomic commits that document the evolution of their application. There are no formatting issues in the code base.

### HTML Style

- 3:  Developer solves structural problems with a balance between conciseness and clarity. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code and every tag and selector is doing.

### CSS Style

- 3:  Application is thoughtfully put together with some duplication and no major bugs. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of CSS is doing.

(feedback to me)

#### IdeaBox

*   [GitHub URL](https://github.com/kamos1/ideabox)
*   [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/ideabox.html)

Description: IdeaBox takes an idea from a user, allows the user to edit it after it's been generated and updates the edits to local storage. It also allows users to search all their ideas and hide ideas that don't match. Users can also rate the quality of their ideas through "upvote and downvote buttons".

Evaluation Comments:
- try to call functions in event listeners
- tidier comments

Evaluation Scores:
## Evaluator: Robbie

## Optional Notes:

### Specification Adherence

* 3 - The application consists of one page with all of the major functionality being provided by jQuery. No approach was taken that is counter to the spirit of the project and its learning goals. There are no features missing from above that make the application feel incomplete or hard to use.

### HTML Style

- 4: Developer is able to craft HTML that is semantically correct and clearly organized. There are zero instances where an instructor would recommend taking a different approach. Developer writes markup that is exceptionally clear and well-factored. Application is expertly organized and logically structured with with a clear, thoughtful use of tags and selectors.

### CSS Style

- 3.5:  Application is thoughtfully put together with some duplication and no major bugs. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of CSS is doing.

### JavaScript Style

* 3.5 - Application is thoughtfully put together with some duplication and no major bugs. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code is doing.

### Workflow

* 4 - The developer effectively uses Git branches and many small, atomic commits that document the evolution of their application.

### Collaboration

* 3 - Team members employ PRs and [issues](https://guides.github.com/features/issues/) to both manage their work and communication/collaboration around executing the tasks.

(feedback to me)

#### 2DoBox Pivot

*   [GitHub URL](https://github.com/anderswood/2DoBox-Pivot)
*   [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/2DoBox-Pivot-Mod1.html)

Description: 2DoBox Pivot was a project where we where
to test someone else's code, refactor that code, and also add additional functionality.

Evaluation Comments:
- Try not to use global variables

Evaluation Scores:
## Evaluator: Bree

### Specification Adherence

3 - The application consists of one page with all of the major functionality being provided by jQuery. No approach was taken that is counter to the spirit of the project and its learning goals. There are no features missing from phases 1 through 4 that make the application feel incomplete or hard to use.

### User Interface

3 - The application has many strong pages/interactions, but a few holes in lesser-used functionality.

### HTML Style

3 - Developer solves structural problems with a balance between conciseness and clarity. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code and every tag and selector is doing.

### JavaScript Style

3 - Application is thoughtfully put together with some duplication and no major bugs. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code is doing.

### Testing

3 - Project has a running test suite but fails to cover some features. The application makes some use of feature testing.


### Workflow

3 - The developer makes a series of small, atomic commits that document the evolution of their application. There are no formatting issues in the code base.


(feedback to me)

## D: Professional Skills
Learning how to be a developer is great, but it's nice
learning how to work in a community/team of developers.

### Gear Up
#### Growth Mindset

*   [GitHub URL](https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/m1_citizenship/session_1_growth_mindset.markdown)

Takeaways from session:
Based off of my previous experiences I have a good understanding of growth mindset and can channel the strength to rebound after a setback.

#### Getting Better at Difficult Things

*   [GitHub URL](https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/m1_citizenship/session_2_getting_better_at_difficult_things.md)

Takeaways from session: The only way to get better is to keep trying and as you fumble through it you will actual learn it.

#### Managing Stress

*   [GitHub URL](https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/m1_citizenship/session_3_managing_stress.md)

Takeaways from session: Handle your shit. It's on you to develop ways to handle your stress and you need to actually follow through with that plan.

#### Debugging the Gender Gap & Microaggressions in Tech

*   [GitHub URL](https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/m1_citizenship/session_5_debugging_gender_gap.md)

Takeaways from session: There is much discussion that needs to become commonplace so that it no longer feels like a taboo topic to talk about.

### PROtocol
#### (Session Name)

*   [Link to Completed Deliverables](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tr41T83VHd-VdNFYTmfvWLERpXjTv9MWMtkJ1UKfRKg/edit?usp=sharing)

### Professional Development Workshops
#### Learning to Pair

*   [Workshop URL](https://github.com/turingschool/professional_skills/blob/master/module_one/learning_to_pair.md)
*   [Link to Completed Deliverables](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1l86eAmkLVYyvIF28_IPMAvh-9d4LaV4r8-owlUOlE68/edit?usp=sharing)

Takeaways from session: It's important to setup some rules and boundries before you start working.

## E: Feedback and Community Participation

### Giving Feedback

##### Feedback from me to Zane Russell:
The interactions we've had have been great. They're really beneficial and improve my ability to get things done. I've appreciated your willingness to answer and try to answer a lot of questions I've had. You also help me stay on top of my game.

### Being a Community Member

While we didn't directly pair on any project this inning, I found you to be a great resource when I was stuck on anything. I really appreciate your approach to helping your peers in that you don't simply give the answer if you had already arrived at your own answer. You're very good at guiding someone towards their own answers, and thus they can learn from it, instead of just getting the answer and not understanding why. Keep it up my man.

### Playing a Part

##### Ways you supported the larger Turing community:
I'm a member of SAB


------------------

## Final Review

### Notes

( Leave blanks for reviewers )

### Outcome

PASS
