# Joseph Jobes - M1 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

What did you set out to accomplish this module? Were you successful?
* The initial goal I had upon entering the first module was to challenge myself, both intellectually and socially. I wanted to broaden my knowledge of backend engineering, build a strong foundational knowledge of ruby basics, and develop an intuitive programming flow. As for the social side of things, I wanted to make sure I knew everyone in the class, some people in the upper mods, and develop a strong relationship with some mentors. In regards to both my technical and social goals, I believe I have met them. I definitely can grow in both departments, but I am farther along in both than I had originally thought I would be.

What did you struggle most with this module? What did you learn from that struggle?
* One of the largest struggles I had was asking for help. I initially felt that I would be a bother to others and didn't want to be annoying. As time went on, and I became more comfortable, I was able to foster a relationship with mentors, upper mod students, and classmates, so that I didn't feel uncomfortable asking for help. Now I am at the point where I will ask someone new for help - starting with an introduction of course. The other major struggle I had was time management. I get up early everyday, and am able to get in solid hours of work, even with constant exercise, but I was still running into problems with over scheduling mentor sessions, or miscalculating how long it might take to finish a section of the project. These are things I had to stumble a bit with before I could set up a groove for planning out my day. Of course both of these, as with the personal goals I had entering mod 1, can be improved, but I am at a point where they are not huge hurdles anymore. There is always room for improvement.

## Projects

What were your favorite projects this module? Least favorite? Why?
* My favorite project by far was HTTP-Yeah-You-Know-Me. This project was not my favorite because it was easy. It was my favorite because it was the most challenging one. The project also introduced the concepts of what a server was, and allowed me to better understand what is happening when a server is running. Throughout the project I noticed that I was having a hard time figuring out what was going on, and it never seemed to click until iteration 4, but that struggle and doubt is ironically comforting. When I am in a state of panic, or doubt, I feel that I am in a situation where I can learn something new. This might be a strong life lesson or maybe something more benign about myself and how I react to things, but no matter what, during a time of intense stress, I find that the lessons I learn coming out are invaluable. This project was also useful in that it gave us a taste of what ruby could do practically. So far we have dealt with projects that might be fun, and might help us with trying out new methods or ways of doing things, but this project was like taking ruby, which at that moment was starting to make a little sense, and throwing us a version that looked like an entirely new language. It was thrilling and ultimately stressful beyond words, but I felt that it helped me understand how I deal with stressful situations more.
* As for my least favorite, I would have to say that the NightWriter was my least favorite. Not that I hated the project or think it was invaluable, but I just struggled to ask for help at that time. When I say that it was my least favorite it has nothing really to do with the material, but more so to do with how I acted and how I carried myself during the project. I should have asked for more help, should have leaned on my partner more, and should have not let my nerves get so frazzled. Even though I had a lot of difficult responsibilities to attend to in life during that week, I should not have let that stress get to me. If I had fully disciplined myself in my meditation practices and ego loss, I would have known that I could confide in people, but I didn't. I didn't want to be a burden. This project was the first team paired one, and I should have been better at connecting with my partner more, but I didn't. It taught me a lot about myself, and for that I am thankful, but how guarded I was during the project about my own stresses was a blunder I will no longer commit.

What did you learn from your independent projects?
* The biggest lesson I learned was that when I need to ask for help, I should. There is no benefit in struggling to figure something out if you have a deadline and are spinning your wheels. In fact, to not ask for help, when you need it, tells a lot about a person. My initial reaction to struggling with a concept or problem is to first try and figure it out, and sometimes I would get too caught up in the process, that time would fly by, when if I had asked for help, I would have realized a simple solution, which it normally is, to my problem. I'm not learning in a secluded environment. I am at Turing. An inclusive and welcoming place with amazing mentors, instructors, upper mod members, and my amazing fellow cohorts. To not utilize this strong tool would be a major mistake, and really a show of my own hubris. I could go over all of the technical details I learned through my projects, utilizing single scope responsibilities, methods, classes, modules, and what not, but really the biggest lesson is what I learned about myself in these projects. How I go about tackling a problem. How I deal with stress. Besides the learning that I am not in this alone, I also realized my reasoning and logic is not where I once thought it was, or at least in regards to programming, the logic required is something I have been lacking in. I hope to work on this in the future.

What did you learn from your paired projects?
* The biggest lesson I learned from my paired projects was that someone else can see a problem or solution in a completely different way from myself. Even though I might understand what my solution to a problem is, that doesn't always mean someone else will. I found myself having a moment of introspection and realizing that I need to explain everything about my thought process, because to assume that someone already understands your reasoning, is another sign of the ego rearing its ugly head. Another thing I learned was that I quite like to work alongside someone. I have always worked alone, or if studying, studied alone. This has always been a source of comfort, since I am a rather extreme introvert, but working alongside someone provides this sense of support. It provides another point of view that can help me with spinning my wheels on one solution, when there is a much simpler way. Now of course, being an extreme introvert, I will eventually run out of energy being around others, but this has been a good exercise in developing, for a lack of a better term, social endurance. This has led into developing patience and taught me that if I am stressed about something not to let it enter the team environment. Keep all stresses outside.

## Community

What was your favorite Gear Up? Least favorite? Why?
* My favorite gear up was the Gear Up that dealt with the social media tools for professional development. Twitter has always been a rather foreign concept to me. Not that I haven't heard of it, or even used it, but I just never found any use in it. It has always been associated with drama and distraction in my mind, which if you use it that way, you will find those easily, but as with all other forms of software and social media, it is a tool. It can be used however you want, so if you want to get into petty internet arguments with a random stranger, then you can do that. If you want to follow the latest trends with tech, and leaders in the software development industry, you can do that too. It is another community that can be utilized to help you find new connections, answers, and possibly friends, but it all comes down to how you use it. That paradigm shift interesting.

How did you contribute to the Turing community this module?
* I did not contribute as much as I should have. This was all new to me, so I took a lot of time to warm up to the situation and to the people I was in the module with. The only contribution I made to the community was to make sure that I got to meet upper mod members, mentors, and my other cohorts. I wanted to develop a relationship with them so that I could feel comfortable and create long lasting friendships. When people in my cohort asked a question or wanted help with something I made sure to put in the effort not steal their learning and help them. This was extremely gratifying, in that I was able to give back in some small fashion to my cohort.

What would you like to do to contribute next module?
* Since my community involvement in this mod has been rather lacking, I would like to offer my services and time to the next incoming mod 1 cohort. I have already entered the 1801-1711 paired channel on slack, and I plan on following that everyday I can to make sure if people need help, I will be there. I also plan to stay after school most days to check up on the mod 1 cohorts. Besides that I have been toying around with the idea of trying to start up a posse, but I need to think of something that isn't too obscure that people won't join. I only have one more day to think about this, so I am going to devote some time and think of something. I would also like to start going to meetups outside of Turing and become involved in the Denver software community, as well. As time goes on, I feel that I will find more things to add back to the community at Turing. I am becoming more comfortable and starting to understand the work and flow of things here, so I plan on doing something more than just coming in, learning, and leaving. I want to make deeper connections with people and give back in some way.


## Self-Assessment Scores

Fill in how you would grade yourself from 1-4 in the following categories this module.

| Category                     | Score |
| -----------------------------| ----- |
| **Individual Projects**      |   3   |
| **Group Projects**           |   3   |
| **Professional Development** |   3   |
| **Community**                |  2.5  |
| **Pentathlon**               |   3   |
