# Daniel Vogelsang

Students should clone their individual file and update them with gist links for each specific deliverables before making a Pull Request. Please name your Pull Request using this convention: *Module Program First Name Last Name*, i.e. "M3 BE Allison Singer"
# B4 Portfolio Template

## MOD 4 deliverables

## Area of Emphasis

What do you want to focus on this inning? What do you hope to accomplish by graduation?
Feel much more confident in my skills as a coder and to better understand more development theory, Computer Science, and technologies.

## Assessment

 PASS: https://github.com/thedanielvogelsang/word_watch

* What was your biggest technical challenge?
  Perhaps the ajax calls? The test was straight forward.

* What did you like the most about the challenge?
  I liked the fast-paced nature of the assessment, that it quizzed us on everything we've learned re: vanilla javascript / jquery, and within a time frame that felt perfect.

* How did you solve that challenge? What was your approach?
  Leaped immediately into the front-end-event-listener javascript that we've been learning, in order to capture the all-important 'word' variable for manipulation.

* What did you learn?
  Still got some practice to go, for sure.

## Quantified Self

PASS https://github.com/katiekeel/quantified-self

* What was your biggest technical challenge?
Understanding environmental dependencies and configurations for node.js

* How did you solve that challenge? What was your approach?
I mean, its an ongoing thing. But for the project itself, I made do with the tutorials and then did a little side investigation in order to fill in the gaps. Largely, and this is a turing-long thing, I would like to have had a few more technically-intensive conversations about frameworks, environments, and everything in between. In preparing for my job interviews, I dont really even know how best to tackle this large and looming lack of understanding...

* What did you like the most about the challenge?
I absolutely *adored* learning javascript, in a fast-paced, multi-environment (server side, client side) process, which not only allowed a comprehensive understanding of both front-end and back-end applications of JS, but also gave me an opportunity to see the two interact for a 'full stack' experience. LOVED THE PROJECT!

* What are three technical concepts you learned during this project?
I learned that JS sits, sort of, between a direct OOP language and a functional language.

* If you could change one thing about your technical approach, what would it be and why?
I would read more docs ahead of time, and perhaps take notes. Patience is a virtue I have little time for.

* What was the experience like working with a pair while learning something new?
Stressful, but I had confidence in my partner and we did a lot remotely.

## Capstone Project

PASS https://github.com/thedanielvogelsang/VanCSVUploader

* What was your biggest technical challenge?
React at first, but that was just the first few days. Progressively it became more and more and issue of Van's API and being able to coordinate timing with the candidate/her team. I would say however that figuring out how to post in production was a particularly challenging feat.

* How did you solve that challenge? What was your approach?
At first I spent a lot of time in debugger trying to locate the issue, as well as ample hours researching specific errors related to Heroku, Redis, Background Workers, Sidekiq, RedisToGo, Rediscloud and React.

* What did you like the most about the challenge?
It gave me an opportunity to stretch my comforts, after the stretch 'off' between QuantifiedSelf and my capstone. But most of all, it pressed me to explore the very subjects I understood least: ones of production and environments and runtimes. Being by myself and still required to take a complex product to production forced me to read manuals and be more tactful in my approach.

* What are three technical concepts you learned during this project?
React syntax, construct, and deployment
The parts of an HTTP request and how to manipulate them frontside / backside
The mechanics of a background worker, how Sidekiq interacts with Redis and the restrictions on that interation Heroku consigns.

## Feedback

What's one piece of meaningful feedback you received during B4? What have you done or going to do regarding this feedback?
I really can't wait to negotiate salary in the real world, I thought the Gear Up with Allison pertaining to negotiations was particularly insightful and built my confidence.

The other piece of meaningful advice I received was actually from my Lead during my shadow with Healthify, who told me that the number 1 thing he looks for at Healthify when hiring is a humble willingness to learn. I think this is the best way to approach the table when starting / applying for a new job.

## Gear Up

Write a reflection about the process of planning/revising a Gear Up session and facilitating the session. Did you enjoy the experience? What was challenging? What was most rewarding?

I was on the Social Movements & Tech GearUP, and I absolutely loved our Gear Up session. We did an excellent job organizing the session, I think, which really paid off in the fluidity of the class and the diversity of voice and competence from the 4th mods that helped teach it together. We purposefully made sure most of the class time was spent around self-exploration, but also explicitly made an intention to load up the first quarter of the session with lots of rich examples, which we divided between ourselves to share. I think we had put together a conversation that held beautiful balance between practical and philosophical, and the students left the session happy they had come.

## Community Involvement

###How else did you give back to the community this inning? Why do you think this is a required part of the Turing experience?

This quarter I really tried to reach out to the 'older' students in our class that were from former cohorts. I hung out with Nick on more than one occasion, and Chantal and I really get along. I worked with several younger cohort students on their projects, and helped when I could. I also helped mitigate an issue between two of my Gear Up session mates, which I think was huge because it helped steer us toward success when our first few meetings were tense.

## Going Forward

###What three skills (professional and/or technical) are you going to take forward with you during your next job post-Turing?

Confidence that I can solve complex problems (that may contain foreign-looking concepts or code) by slow, meticulous research and grit. I really think Turing amplified my resolve when tackling tougher problems, and I want to continue to grow that skill.

Greater appreciation and ability to parse over the Docs for any particular new (or old!) tech

Agile: I think that the fast paced, get-it-to-production and plan-for-future-iteration approach to building code is a good model for real life projects, and matches my personality--even though historically I've been much more of a 'only launch when its completely finished' sort of person. Changing up this approach keeps the focus on creativity and production, as opposed to thought and reflection.

## Professional Development

* Link to 30-day post-grad job search action plan using [this template](https://github.com/turingschool/career-development-curriculum/blob/master/module_four/post_grad_plan.md):

* PD Deliverables:[https://gist.github.com/thedanielvogelsang/05e0098c36a683047774b54c0f1a8d01]

* Prepare a summarized version of your professional story to share during the portfolio review. This is a 1-2 minute sharing highlighting who you are, why you are in software, and what's next in your career.
* Prepare and share your Turing story during week six.


## Mod 3 Deliverables:

* RESUME: https://uptowork.com/mycv/daniel_vogelsang
* TuringProfile: https://www.turing.io/alumni/daniel-vogelsang
* FlowerExercise: https://gist.github.com/thedanielvogelsang/d4ffbd3f4c74dc170f5882e385bbed88
* TRELLO: https://trello.com/b/eK77vQVL/my-to-do-board
* JobSearchPlan: https://gist.github.com/thedanielvogelsang/95f9e51b555acab845c40b7237f17b0e

### MOD 2 DELIVERABLE

#### Cold Outreach
* https://github.com/turingschool/career-development-curriculum/blob/master/module_two/cold_outreach_i_guidelines.md

The mentor/alumni that I contacted was Tommasina Miller (slack; google-hangouts)
6/28/17
She didn't respond. I'm going to reach out to Noah Berman (slack) (as of 7/29/17)
6/29/17
He didn't respond. I'm going to reach out to Adam K Jensen.

In the long run there is no doubt that a relationship with a mentor would be a huge benefit, but actually a major current goal for me. The question isn't 'If'... its 'Who'.

#### (Collaborative Communication)
* https://github.com/turingschool/career-development-curriculum/blob/master/module_two/collaborative_communication.md

This gear-up preceded our first multi-member group project, starting off with a conversation about business work styles/tools: Agile, Waterfall, the Tuckman's stages (Forming;Storming;Norming;Performing;Adjourning), and then in the group discussion we focused on the twin readings of "The Importance of Asking Questions" and "Helping Others Save Face". Our group responded well to the instructions within the articles, and talked about how both approaches, while important and definitely the direction we'd like to head, still required an evolution of the skill. (For instance, merely putting a 'question-mark' at the end of my sentences doesn't truly escape judgment or conflict). One of my project partners pointed out that in reality it's about Intention. That the intention behind the question is what opens the door for trust and open communication. When discussing project management, the group focused on how interconnected Facilitation is with Leadership. I used to really like the quote, "Lead me, follow me, or get out of my way." But this article/discussion nuanced my relationship with the quote, as I feel that facilitation of community (somewhat disconnected from traditional understanding of "leadership") is the MAIN attribute that makes for good leaders. I particularly enjoyed the discussion on the Mitigating Fault chapter of "How to Win Friends in the Digital Age", where one of my group members pointed out "how ego is tethered to productivity". A good leader mitigates fault by helping the blame-worthy 'save face' in such a way that it puts them back into the realm of learning/moving forward.

#### GEAR UP 1 (Privilege)
*
This gear up focused not only on the notion of privilege, but on identifying ways in which we individually have seen privilege and/or marginalization in ways not-so-often discussed. A couple of the items on the check-list sheet we were first given included: Stating whether we've--"ever had someone make assumptions about us based on how we looked." ;"been able to make mistakes without having people attribute behavior to flaws in our group/race"; "ever thought twice about calling the police in the event of trouble";"been able to show affection for our significant other in public without fear of ridicule/violence". Ultimately I found the questions very stimulating, as it got us to focus on elements of privilege that dive deeper into the innate yet subtle privileges that occur in society, rather than just the blatant ones. One of the more potent reminders of my own privilege that I hear in life, but also found on the sheet, was about whether I'd ever been talked over because of an inability to articulate. As a white, articulate male with a loud voice, I find myself in English circles regularly at the helm of conversation. I have been told in the past that, for some, it's difficult to get a word in around me when I'm talking (particularly) to other males/aggressive personalities that allow for rapid-fire, and loud, conversation without much break--a phenomenon that I try to curb by staying conscious of others in the group and relative amounts of talking time. However, while studying abroad, I experienced regularly the other side of the equation: when my spanish level was still novice (took me 8 months to start feeling confident), I would regularly be discouraged when I attempted to talk and, either through error or inability to articulate my thought, would watch my words fall flat on my audience. This was a very discouraging and impactful time of my life--especially as I came from a background where my voice WAS respected and listened to (for the most part). Another thought-inspiring aspect of privilege I hadn't considered was where and how one chooses to work/gets work accomplished most efficiently. Those from loud or violent communities of course would have an entirely different relationship with 'study environment' than I have. I was encouraged to consider how my *need* for quiet may be attributable to coming up in a middle-class, rural environment. I think the real value of this Gear up was in acknowledging the multifold of possible manifestations of privilege, and the nuances that drive our society. My call to action was simply to continue my dedication to learning how to be a partner, comrade, and friend in instances where marginalization occurs. To stay conscious of how my privileges have contributed to my own experience, and humble to my ignorance of other's experiences.

#### (Feedback Reflection II) -- SEE LINK FOR FULL GROUP RETRO
* https://github.com/turingschool/career-development-curriculum/blob/master/module_two/feedback_ii.md

** LINK TO RETRO: https://gist.github.com/thedanielvogelsang/f7bf80223302906a93a5ad8ce44f252f

Since our group retro, I have intentionally reached out and had feedback reflection time with two of the three peers I worked on Bike-Share with. Both Eddie and Des gave me exceedingly kind reviews, and while Eddie had 'nothing negative to say', Des helped me address some of the frictions that have occurred in a later group. We have worked hard, Des and I, at maintaining a friendship despite communication lapses. As time has gone on, we have gotten much better at communicating patiently and with the intention of listening first before responding. She and I are currently working on our final project together, and I would hope that, like me, she would report that things have improved tremendously.

By speaking with both these members, it helped me feel confident in what I bring to the team: skepticism, direction, and strategy; while also cognizant (for the nth time) that my general serious and direct demeanor is intimidating for some.


#### GEAR UP 2 (Being an Ally)
* https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/allyship.markdown

* I loved this gear up. The conversations elicited were dynamic and valuable to many in the room, i could tell, largely predicated on the willingness of the instructor to allow the group to steer the conversation wherever it led us. My small group talked a lot about the 'gray-ness' of the notion of oppression. Some members of oppressed groups make topics of oppression and privilege a defining feature of their lives, of their identity. Others (such as an Asian-American member of my small group) who have been discriminated against aim to 'rise above', rather than admit victimhood. Still others admit the concept of privilege but don't read much into it past acknowledging its existence, and the importance to change the system over time toward more inclusivity. I feel that the Gear-Up, with its scenarios, gave us an opportunity to dive into real-world examples of micro-agressions, and discuss whether or not being "an ally" demanded of us that we speak up in smaller cases of insensitivity, rather than focusing on larger, more explicit examples of injustice. The first article, which interviewed four different women activists, was extremely valuable, i felt. Those--people working on the front lines of these social problems-- are the people from whom we have much to gain in perspective. All in all i left the GearUp feeling satisfied with the experience and its effect on those who participated.


#### Feedback Reflection III / Jihari Window
The juxtoposition of the Jihari Window with the last group I worked with has me feeling conflicted. The Jihari window exercise left me feeling exceedingly confident about how people perceived me--words like "complex", "intelligent", "kind", "communicative", "calm" in my "arena"-- and a whole host of positive blindspots:
caring
focused
dependable
adaptable
able
hardworking
honest
driven
accepting
bold
friendly
accountable
energetic
clever
searching
relaxed
knowledgeable.

And yet, this last week I was asked to sign a disciplinary plan because some students felt I came off too-aggressively. To be honest I'm not sure how to reconcile these things. I try hard to make people feel welcome--complimenting good ideas regularly, attempting to find space for everyones ideas, staying hyper-conscious of who has and who hasn't talked, and never ever try to *intentionally* make someone feel bad or stupid. Yet nonetheless, evidently my natural form of communication still leaves some feeling attacked. While I'd like to work on this, I also wish there were some way to find an objective audience to oversee my interaction with others without sacrificing the organic-ness and natural-ness of the interaction. Im at the point where I quite honestly get such VASTLY different appraisals of me that Im not sure whats true and whats not. Am I, as some of my cohort peers have reported, skilled with words and inspiring? Or how much of this is subjective... and therefore worth giving a grain of salt to? I take it very personally when I'm told I've left someone feeling unwelcome, or without a voice--and very much want to work on myself in ways that curb that phenomenon. But I'm beginning to suspect that the almost hypochondriac-like state and constant anxiety i feel about how I'm affecting others leaves me more tense and uptight, and less capable of perceiving things objectively, than is worth it.

#### StrengthsFinders Teamwork

Eddie and I talked today about all sorts of things, and were surprised that we shared (and in both our cases often suffer from) two major strengths in common: Accomplishment and Restorative. The accomplishment piece we both agreed drove a certain angst that cycles constantly in and out of our lives. An angst that occurs at the end of every day in which we don't feel like we've 'moved forward'. Restorative, on the other hand, leads us to dissect and dwell on our own personal (self-perceived) faults and room for growth. Eddie gave me quite a few solid recommendations to better cope and utilize our strengths in a productive manner: First, he said that he had had to learn early in life to quickly differentiate 'workable' from 'powerless' situations of inadequacy. In other words, he said to work on figuring out what things he DOES have effect over and which he does not, and to let the latter go. He tells me that this has been exceedingly difficult, but that with time, it has brought a lot more patience and self-forgiveness. Secondly, he suggested time-boxing energy-depleting tasks and events throughout the week. He said that there was a time when he would pressure himself to show up to events that he knew would enhance his anxiety--simply because of the desire to please people. Becoming more in touch with his own tried-and-true sources of positive thinking and energy, and learning to trust his routine, have been helpful there.

#### GEAR UP 3 (Fake News)

Like many a gear up (or, better stated, 'societal issue'), the conversation left me feeling like i had a better-founded understanding of the issue, but did not leave me feeling any closer to solving it. In the gear up we discussed how the tech industry (specifically through 'bots') have unfairly influenced the market dynamics / abused the algorithms of popular platforms like "Twitter" and "Google", but it also focused heavily on the ethics and moral arguments for and against the call for regulations. The conversation definitely satisfied my intellectual needs, but once again did not focus on concrete movements/possible fixes. While the concept of 'fake news'--very much itself interchangeable with "propaganda"--is nothing new, the anonymity of the internet and morally-deplorable opposing political factions driving the extremism, we are watching an ever-growing divide in this country that delivers very genuine cause for alarm. No longer do citizens in this country draw their understandings of the world from even remotely similar bodies of information--'the facts' now is just as much a subjective term as 'opinions', and, accordingly, people are increasingly unwilling and incapable of communicating over their differences and arriving at a satisfactory agreement somewhere in the middle. I think this gear up did a good job at increasing awareness, but I would have liked the Mod4 hosts (who did a great job leading discussion) to have brought material to consider what companies/organizations/campaigns are currently positioning themselves to counter-act this trend.

#### (Using Agile/Communication in Projects)

I think my skills with communication platforms like Waffle and GitHub have grown immensely. I enjoy very much the Agile iterative-approach; taking things in chunks, accepting feedback, and pushing for production by creating products that are capable of evolving there-after, rather than solely shooting for perfectionism before anything makes it out into the real world. I thought working in a group brought different challenges throughout the mod. My first group struggled simply becaues of lack of familiarity/fluency github, but quickly and efficiently constructed a group flow that not only allowed the groups manager to have an active role in overseeing the project, but also that evenly distributed the workload in such a way that everyone got to do what they wanted to do and challenge themselves. My second group project, more fluent in GitHub but less willing and capable of productive communication, struggled not because of project but personal disagreements. This severely limited each members ability to (a) feel comfortable in the group setting, (b) present creative solutions without worrying about rejection, and (c) tackle confidently new elements of the project that they didn't know well how to accomplish. Group dynamics not only shrunk my personal enjoyment of the project, it shrunk my (and our) ability to grow as coders as well. I'm still working out my reflections on what was learned from my second group.
