# Iza Jimenez- M4 Portfolio

30 Day Post Plan: https://gist.github.com/izaxveta/fde91b7192e4c587deb729a72fbcecb6

### What was your biggest achievement of the module?

* I think that after being in Turing for so long you develop this kind of comfort in being here with instructors that challenge you and push your learning. When it came time to actually start thinking of making that transition out of Turing my perspective changed a bit. While I felt like I was capable of taking on all the different challenges I was tasked with, suddenly that feeling was overshadowed by the uncertainty of the kinds of challenges I’d be facing once I left Turing. I began to feel incapable and shied away from many job opportunities. My biggest achievement of the module was realizing that it's not about knowing all the things - it's about knowing how to program and how to handle what's right in front of you. Growing to be confident in what I've learned through my experiences with all these challenges and beginning to really make those transitional moves to new experiences that Turing can't teach.

### What provided you with the most struggle? What did you learn from that struggle?

* What provided me with the most struggle wasn’t the task of taking up a new language like JavaScript within a few days or any of the individual projects - rather it was more about being able to balance all things Turing as well as all things involved in looking for a job. I felt like I was in a good position where I had planned for making sure I had a lot of comfort room after graduating Turing where I didn’t have to have a job right when I finished. However, I think the school put a tremendous amount of pressure on finding a job for all the students regardless of what their status was. It came to the point where even though I didn’t have to have a job after graduation, I was putting a higher priority on job search than all my other responsibilities. It came to a point where I was getting worn out and felt like my focus was not where it should have been which is on all of the things that are required for graduation. What I learned from that struggle was to not lose focus on what I know is right for me, even when I’m pressured by everyone else to do otherwise. I am the only one steering on my journey an no one else.

### What have you done this inning that sets you apart from your peers?

* The majority of the students here are able to go to Turing, work on their projects, and go home to their personal life where they have time for themselves and their families. For me, when I go home, it’s Turing all over again. Throughout my entire time at Turing, but especially this inning, something that sets me apart from my peers is my commitment to helping others. I live with other Turing students and make it a priority to help them succeed because I know from experience what it’s like to struggle during crucial times when you find yourself approaching your limit. I help because I care. That commitment is not limited to the two students that I live with - it also carries over to other students that have struggled and had to repeat. This willingness to help became a big sacrifice for me because it came to a point where I wanted others to succeed so badly that it interfered with my ability to work at my best. I can’t say that it’s something that sets me apart form my peers in a positive light, but I think it counts for something.

### How did your Mod 4 experience with this part of the stack (e.g. front-end technologies for BE students/back-end technologies for FE students) impact what you wanted to be doing after Turing? How did it reframe what you learned in previous modules?

* The Mod 4 experience with the front-end stack hasn’t impacted what I wanted to be doing after Turing. I’ve always been interested in front-end. Considering how I’ve studied art and design for over 10 years, I don’t see how it would make sense to pay so much money to go to a school and study design when its something that I would be willing and able to learn well on my own. Essentially what I’m saying is - don’t go to school for something you already know.

### What is the most important skill or lesson that you will take from Turing into your next job?

* I give credit to the individual instructors like Sal, Josh and Cory who have taught me some of the most important lessons that I’ll take into my next job. More than the ability to program, they have taught me the importance of taking care of myself by taking breaks and time for myself (which is something that I continue to struggle with to this day), and also that the amount of what I know now - and will know ever - is but a small drop in an endless ocean of ever-evolving information that is available. As much as I wish to know everything there simply isn’t enough time and it’s not expected to know absolutely everything. Instead, it’s important to know how to respond in the event that you don’t know something.
