# Mike Heft - M1 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

What did you set out to accomplish this module? Were you successful?
>Not repeat. Just kidding, I wanted to do much better and get out of my head this time around. I definitely wanted to play with hashes more, which I did. I've felt a lot more comfortable with everything this time, which made it much more enjoyable and educational. I believe I was successful.

What did you struggle most with this module? What did you learn from that struggle?
>There were times where I didn't see what was needed as quickly as I wanted. I felt that when that happened, it would appear that I wasn't really doing as well as I felt that I was. But once I took a second to take a breath and actually read the spec, I was able to figure things out.

## Projects

What were your favorite projects this module? Least favorite? Why?
>Battleship was my favorite this time around. It killed me last time, and this time I _*KILLED*_ it. I not only finished the project but I also entered it in the Code Fair. I mean seriously, anyone who knew me in my first time around would never have seen that coming last time.
My least favorite was none really. I learned a lot on all of the projects, which allowed me to have fun on all of them.

What did you learn from your independent projects?
>That I can actually do this for a living. And that given enough time, and resources I can't do just about anything.

What did you learn from your paired projects?
>How to slow down if I'm the one getting it more easily. I didn't learn this as well as I would've hoped. I felt that I let my partner down during Black Thursday.

## Community

What was your favorite Gear Up? Least favorite? Why?
>I don't know. I understand what the Gear Up's are trying to do, but I've had a hard time trying to implement them for myself. The ones where we have to share personal stuff were still pretty hard. I'm still pretty shy when it comes to actual personal reflection. The one that leaves the most last impression on me was the Gender Gap. It extrapolates to all minorities and it just angers me that people are still being judged on things other than their skills.

How did you contribute to the Turing community this module?
>I feel like I was able to contribute by pairing and doing my best to help people that had questions find the answers. I also feel that I was able to be an ally I guess for some people. I became aware of something happeneing and hope that was able to be a shoulder to lean on when needed for that person.

What would you like to do to contribute next module?
>I would like to pair with the incomming Mod1 students, one to aid them in the search for knowledge and two to keep my ruby skills high so i can continue to help.

## Self-Assessment Scores

Fill in how you would grade yourself from 1-4 in the following categories this module.

| Category                     | Score |
| -----------------------------| ----- |
| **Individual Projects**      |   3   |
| **Group Projects**           |   3   |
| **Professional Development** |   2   |
| **Community**                |   2   |
| **Pentathlon**               |   3   |
