# Andrew Jeffery - M2 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

What did you set out to accomplish this module? Were you successful?
This module I set out to, generally, be ok with letting go of control while trying to progress forward.  I think the projects in module 1 are characterized by intensive logic and algorithmic thinking, which requires knowing evey step of the process.  This is in stark contrast to adjusting to a web framework where there are a lot of moving pieces and knowing the exact details of every piece is not necessarily important / efficient.  I feel successful in this regard, in that I feel comfortable in rails and am comfortable not knowing every single detail.  I feel like I have the resources in place to research issues as they come up and have become more familiar with the documentation.  Being comfortable being uncomfortable has also applied to adjusting to front-end, which was another goal of mine.  Although I definitely feel more comfortable with html/css, I know there is a lot of room for improvement.  Although I feel somewhat successful in this regard, I would still like to observe a css wiz in action (using developer tools/ though process) and try to adopt some of their approaches.  Lastly, I initially set out to become more familiar with SQL and database relations.  I started strong with this, spending a lot of time on prework in regards to SQL, and think this has waned a bit over the module.  I would like to continue practicing SQL to feel comfortable with intermediate to advanced queries.  

What did you struggle most with this module? What did you learn from that struggle?
I think I can speak to when I struggled most in this module, which was early on, first 1/3 or so.  There are a lot of new things thrown at you early, not necessarily new concepts but new tools - and I found it diffcult to prioritize these.  I think this is very much the nature of Turing in general, but I can say it felt more stressful to me than most of mod 1.  From this I think I learned to rely on fellow students more as people will probably have spent more time with one tool or another.  I think in general this was true for most of the students in the module, as I worked and brainstormed with a more diverse range of students than previously.  I think I also struggled a lot with code-alongs early in the module.  I had a tendency to just rote-type, having to worry about not falling behind rather than absorbing the process and principles being laid out.  About week 3 or 4 I changed my method, and rather than just looking over the lesson plans I would spend 40 minutes before class coding them out.  This allowed me to reinforce the code-along of the day and spend more cognitive resources to focus on the process itself.     

## Projects

What were your favorite projects this module? Least favorite? Why?
I really enjoyed the rails mini project this module, it was the first project opportunity we have had to pursue a personal intersest of ours.  I enjoyed having to come up with something and fit it within the criteria listed in the project.  I hope to continue to build on my personal project going forward.  I also enjoyed dividing responsibility and learning about git workflow styles during bike share.  That said I think bikeshare was the most stressful early on, there were a lot of different tasks to tackle, and seeding issues prevented experimenting in rails console.  After we got through this we were able to divide and conquer and be much more efficient.  I think job tracker was probably my least favorite project.  As a practical application I didn't find the premise that believable.  I also was not excited about the self assessment aspect, which I think the large majority of students do anyway as they proceed through various iterations of a project.  That said I found the project very helpful in becoming more comfortable with rails. 

What did you learn from your independent projects?
How to front end style-ish!!!  During paired projects I was eager to let other people take the reigns on this aspect.  The indepedent projects definitely forced me to get more comfortable with styling.  I think the indepedent projects are also where the new tools began to settle and I became more comfortable in everything, rails, active record, psql, html, css.  I also think this is where restful routing concepts also sank in.  Thinking about the custom resources I wanted to build for my mini project and user interaction helped to solidify restful concepts and core CRUD functionality.  Style early style often!!!  It took me a few projects to incorporate this concept, but styling early was tremendously helpful in determining what additional functionality I wanted to add and what functionality was extraneous or lower priority, not to mention allowed me to clean up bugs that I may not have discovered with tests.   

What did you learn from your paired projects?
Division of responsibility was a huge new element for my paired projects.  Previously, out of fear of stealing other's learning, my partner and I would driver navigate for at least 90% of the work.  This was great for being familiar with all aspects of the project, however, it was not the most efficient use of time.  The scope of work for bikeshare definitely required us to adequately divide responsibility.  As part of this, our git workflow and project management with waffle had to be very in sync to prevent duplication of work.  This project provided a great opportunity to practice rebasing and having converstaions remotely over github.  From a learning standpoint I think our team had a good system, whereby one person would focus on a particular area such as analytics, or authorization, or styling.  Later, when we found bugs or failed other tests, we would assign this to the person who didn't have the original area, forcing them to dive into the other person's methods and understand what was going on.  This was helpful to maintain a division of responsibility while also being exposed to all aspects of the project.  I also learned about certain conventions that should be established in the DTR, such as test naming and directory structures.    

## Community

What was your favorite Gear Up? Least favorite? Why?
My favorite gear up was the personal story development one.  I think it is a great exercises to reflect on your history and develope a 'pitch' of sort that makes you comfortable in networking situations.  I really enjoyed having to share the story with a small group of people and receiving feedback.  I also really enjoyed listening to other people's personal stories and provided them with areas for improvement.  I hope to continue to refine my story and meet with the PD team to get their insights as well.  I also really enjoyed the mod 4 led PD session - it's always interesting to have a venue to discuss current issues within the tech industry.  I got exposed to some very interesting AI issues that I hope I plan to research further.  

My least favorite gear up session was mindful communication.  It seemed to me that the message during the session was relatively unclear, specifically in terms of sharing feelings.  I understand the sentiment of being a director and kind communicator but remember finding the examples quite unclear.  As a pragmatist, I don't necessairly see the difference between "I think", versus "I feel" - I think the end result there is the same.  I did appreciate the needs and request portion of that session and think this is an essential part of maintaining a good relationship with collaborators.  

How did you contribute to the Turing community this module?
I contributed to the Turing community by engaging with multiple posses, the Easley posse and Machine Learning posse, and by reaching out to students in module 1 to provide insights.  Within the Easley posse I made a concerted effort to converse with lower mod students and share my experience with them, as those before me had done.  I also become involved in the machine learning posse, which has been an awesome way to meet with people that share a common interest as well as pick the brains of more experienced junior developers.  As a posse we decided to devote a few hours a week to attempting a challenge on Kaggle, which has been a great intro to python and basic machine learning practices.  I also continued to reach out to upper mod students and meet new students within the community.  Also, I have been networking within my own personal web of friends, some of whom are developers, and have linked a friend recruiting for a startup to Turing.    

What would you like to do to contribute next module?
Next module I would like to continue my outreach to students in modules below me and make myself available for heling.  I would also like to stay involved in the machine learning posse and help to make this a productive and interesting time.  Additionally I would like to network outside of turing, within meetups and other coding related events.  Although this sounds self-motivated, I think it has a dual aspect.  I have a friend and mentor that I have brought to Turing to help with projects, and have shown him around turing and introduced him to fellow students as a possible mentor relationship.  After this, he became interesting in possibly recruiting from turing and I forwarded him necessary information.  I would also like to attend more turing events, such as code demos and python pals.  I have really enjoyed seeing other people's projects in code demos and have gotten ideas for personal projects from here.  I would like to be part of this also as a way to put additoinal 'front-end' pressure on myself to really focus on user interface.  In this same vein I would like also build relationship horizontally across mods (BE & FE), something our mod has not been great at.  I think both mods can learn a lot from each other - not to mention building additional relationships and growing your personal network.  

## Blog Link 
https://medium.com/@amj_81362/google-deepmind-and-the-turing-test-2e9562f5efa4

## Self-Assessment Scores

Fill in how you would grade yourself from 1-4 in the following categories this module.

| Category                     | Score |
| -----------------------------| ----- |
| **Individual Projects**      |   3   |
| **Group Projects**           |   3   |
| **Professional Development** |   3   |
| **Community**                |   3   |
| **Final Written**            |   3   |
| **Final Timed**              |   3   |
