# Jeff Bender - M1 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

I was determined to get a good handle on the foundations of HTML/CSS and Javascript. Level up my technical skill set and re-join a diverse group of talented individuals that will push me to succeed.

## Rubric Scores

* **A: End-of-Module Assessment**: 3
* **B: Individual Work & Projects**: 3
* **C: Group Work & Projects**: 3
* **D: Professional Skills**: 3
* **E: Community Participation**: 3

-----------------------

## A: End of Module Assessment

Passed


## B: Individual Work & Projects

### Number Guesser
* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/j25bender/numberGuesser)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/number-guesser.html)
#### Student: Jeff Bender
#### Evaluator: Louisa
#### Notes/What To Work On: Overall, solid effort for the first project!
#### Functional Expectations  * Proficient: Application meets all of the expectations of phase three.
#### COMP RECREATION / DESIGN * Advanced Beginner * Proficient   
#### HTML * Advanced Beginner * Proficient   
#### CSS * Advanced Beginner * Proficient    
#### JS/jQuery * Advanced Beginner * Proficient   

(Static Comp 1)
* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/j25bender/jb-comp-challenge-1)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/m1-static-comp-1.html)

(Static Comp 2)
* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/j25bender/jb-static-comp-challenge-2)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/m1-static-comp-2.html)

(Static Comp 3)
* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/j25bender/jb-comp-challenge-3)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/m1-static-comp-3.html)


## C: Group Work & Projects

### Projects

1. Linked List
2. IdeaBox
3. 2DoBox Pivot

### Linked List
* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/j25bender/Linked-List-1)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/linked-list.html)
#### Students: Hugh and Bender
#### Evaluator: Pamela Lovett
#### Notes/What To Work On:
- Good naming with commits and branches
- Very good naming and clean/readable JS
#### Functional Expectations * Exceptional: You completed Phase Three and did something with Phase Four.
#### COMP RECREATION / DESIGN * Proficient  
#### HTML * Proficient   
#### CSS * Exceptional  
#### JS/jQuery * Proficient  
#### GIT & GITHUB * Proficient  
#### Pairing/Collaboration * Proficient  

I was nervous heading into our first pairing project, as I think most everyone was, but by the end of the project, I was very happy to have worked with Bender. It was evident that we had similar work schedules from our DTR, which made timing to work on everything much easier. I appreciated Bender’s initiative in setting up a time to meet every morning before class. This gave us each an opportunity to revisit and go over work we had done independently. I think this is something I will incorporate in all of my pairings moving forward. The only coaching I can really offer to Bender would be to voice what you’re thinking in group settings early on in the project. I think we are both introspective people, but in our first couple of pairing sessions, I struggled to figure out what you were thinking in terms of the project’s direction or how something should be executed. However, I think as we got more comfortable with one another and got excited about solving problems, this lessened extremely. By the end we had really good give and take on how things were being solved, we were each interested in the other person’s work, and fist bumps were going around constantly. Overall, working with Bender was amazing. I was constantly impressed with how he was able to find solutions to problems. In sharing articles or resources with me, he often pointed me in the right direction when struggling. Additionally, the work that he did would often give me a template for something I was doing. I don’t think I would have learned nearly as much working on this project by myself.

### Idea Box
* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/j25bender/IdeaBox)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/ideabox.html)
#### Student: Bender and Julie D
#### Evaluator: Pamela Lovett
#### Notes/What To Work On:
- Design is spot on! 
- No search functionality/filtering and console logs/comments that need deleted
- Good commits and use of feature branches
- Add form and labels for input fields 

#### Functional Expectations
* Novice	Application meets all of the basic functional expectations of create, edit, delete, persist in local storage.
* Advanced Beginner	Application allows for upvote/downvote and enables searching/filtering as defined in the spec.

### HTML
#### Accessibility
* Advanced Beginner	Leverages more precise semantic tags when applicable, and employs basic ARIA roles attributes for added clarity in structure, descriptive image alt attributes, title attributes for applicable anchor tags.
#### Style
* Proficient	Crafts lean, efficient markup that is easy to read and follow across naming conventions, structure, and solid formatting that follows industry best practices.

### CSS
#### Structure of Code
* Proficient	Leverages cascading styles and CSS specificity rules to create more complex targeting of elements in order to reduce, reuse, share styles across elements. Organizes properties within rules based upon industry standard principles of writing consistent, idiomatic CSS.

#### Implementation
* Proficient	Develops layouts that work cross-browser, are responsive, and can logically defend the choices made in implementation approach for layout.

### JAVASCRIPT
#### Data Types
* Proficient	Can identify and track data types through any variety of functions, understanding their affect and result on each line of code. Knows which scenarios are better suited for objects vs. arrays and employs them accordingly.

#### Conditional Logic
* Proficient	Can use an if/esle statement to effectively handle multiple paths through the code. Writes if/else statements that only have one level of logic (no nesting). Can use logical operators instead of if/else statements where applicable.

#### Functions & Scope
* Proficient	Functions have single responsibility. The entirety of the function is easy to read what functionality it contains. Function is generally shorter than 8 lines. Uses functions to eliminate repeated code. Comfortable refactoring any piece of code and extracting it to a function.

#### Arrays
* Proficient	Does not use for loops for arrays - uses array prototypes, such as forEach, to iterate through or manipulate arrays. Can use array to store more complicated data structures such as objects or nested arrays. Is comfortable/efficient with reading array prototype documentation and can efficiently test/apply array prototype methods they have not worked with before.

#### Objects & Prototypes
* Proficient	Can use object prototypes. Can articulate the definition and the “why” of an object prototype - the best use cases for prototypes.

#### DOM Manipulation
* Proficient	Able to extract information, modify attributes, or append/prepend data in the DOM easily regardless of whether they are employing vanilla JavaScript or jQuery. Understands how to harness event bubbling.

#### Style
* Novice	Can explain the choices made in the overall codebase and is able to articulate what every line of code is doing. Code is neatly formatted and easy to read with correct indentation.
* Advanced Beginner	Code shows strong effort toward organization, but suffers from long functions, unnecessary or poorly named variables, and requires significant refactoring. Application may have some duplication and minor bugs.
* Proficient	Code is logically organized, such that reader can easily follow the progression of the app because variable and function names are descriptive and follow a single responsibility approach. There are no major bugs and minimal duplication.
* Exceptional	Application demonstrates excellent knowledge of JavaScript syntax, style, and refactoring. Application has exceptionally well-factored code with little or no duplication.


### GIT & GITHUB
#### Git
* Proficient	Commits changes frequently with detailed commit messages. Uses feature branches to keep master branch free of incomplete features or bugs.

#### Github
* Proficient	Is comfortable with resolving merge conflicts. Asks for review/merge of their pull requests from teammates. Is comfortable editing code based on review feedback from a pull request and resubmitting the branch code.

### DESIGN
#### Comp Recreation
* Proficient	Developer captures the spirit and design intent of the comp. Some small details need polish to achieve a pixel-perfect match to the comp, but developer is clearly mindful of details and has made a conscious and careful effort to match the comp. Any design decisions left open to interpretation are handled thoughtfully and are well executed, but are more noticeable and/or unintuitive than they would be if the designer had provided the solution, or may not be totally seamless during screen-size transitions.

### PAIRING
#### Collaboration
* Advanced Beginner	Can identify deltas in skill level and collaborate on methods whereby both pairs can share equitably in the workload. Can revisit the DTR to address changes that arise, and/or simply to keep one another reminded of the working plan.

IdeaBox was a really hard project and although we didn't finish all the functionality, I think you did a really good job on the CSS. We were able to retain a good working relationship throughout the project even when things weren't going as well as we hoped which I was really happy with. I think it would be helpful if you communicated more throughout the project especially since it's such a complicated project. I know you work best when you divide and conquer; however, I think it's important to maintain a strong line of communication. There were points that you were changing HTML classes that affected the javascript. At one point, I got really frustrated and I needed someone to talk through a problem, but you were hard to reach or unavailable. I really appreciate how you remained calm and had a positive attitude throughout the whole project, even when things weren't going our way. When I did bring up that I was overwhelmed, you were really responsive and stepped up to help.

### 2DoBox
* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/j25bender/2DoBox)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/2DoBox-Pivot-Mod1.html)
#### Student: Jeff and Thomas
#### Evaluator: Louisa
#### Notes/What To Work On:
- a lot of redundancy and duplication in CSS. Sloppy CSS.
- obvious that JS took a priority and was what they were most interested in it
- lots of interesting approaches and solutions in JS
- UI redesign is not effective. Needs a lot of work and tidying.
- Mind the details: spacing and indentation inconsistencies need to be caught before you push to master.

### Functional Expectations Exceptional

### HTML
#### Accessibility Advanced Beginner/Proficient
#### Style Advanced Beginner/Proficient

### CSS
#### Structure of Code Advanced Beginner
#### Implementation Advanced Beginner

### JAVASCRIPT
#### Data Types Proficient
#### Conditional Logic Proficient
#### Functions & Scope Proficient
#### Arrays Proficient
#### Objects & Prototypes Proficient
#### DOM Manipulation Proficient
#### Style Proficient

### GIT & GITHUB
#### Git Proficient
#### Github Proficient

### DESIGN
#### Design Concepts Novice

### PAIRING
#### Collaboration Proficient

I really appreciated getting the opportunity to work with you on 2dobox. I was proud of our end product and the fact that we were able to complete all aspects of the spec where many other groups stopped at the extensions. I was impressed by your mentality which pushed you towards tackling the more technically complex parts of our project and also by your persistence in completing those parts. Louisa's criticism of our CSS and general attention to detail would probably be the most relevant bit of coaching I could offer. I think our similar focus on functionality over design prevented us from achieving as we should have in this aspect. I think this represents a challenge for both of us in future work, to be detail and design oriented even when our partner is not. Obviously time limitations and my illness this week also played a role in our achievement in this sense. I enjoyed working with you and look forward to getting paired up again.

### D: Professional Skills
* [GitHub URL](https://gist.github.com/j25bender/fa7bfee84078cfd64751b104f6756919)

### Gear Up
* [GitHub URL](https://gist.github.com/j25bender/689022929856c770c51bc708b0bd8d23)

#### Growth Mindset
I really loved this talk! I have been living my life this way but never really had a name for it. I have attempted failed and succeeded at many things in my life and have rarely felt hesitante whether or not I could do something it was rather a question of do I want to learn this? I have taught my 2 year old daughter the phrase "not yet" and I feel like I can see the change in her already.

#### Getting Better at Difficult Things
The focus of this session was to explore how it is we learn difficult things like new languages. There is a balance needed intellecutually and emotionally to define goals and determine success. I think it was helpful to have this session early on in the program so that we can better prepare for the oncoming wave of knowledge. On a personal note Alzheimer's runs in my family and keeping the mind working hard to learn new things is part of what staves off the disease.

#### Dealing with Difference: Introverts & Extroverts
I thought this was an interesting session. I feel like this is not a fixed thing for people. In certain situations I am an extrovert and in others an introvert. It made me reevaluate how other people take on problems and how best to approach them given where they fall on the introvert / extrovert scale.

#### Code: Debugging the Gender Gap
I got a lot out of this session. I was surprised by a number of facts in this movie and again I'm so glad to have a daughter that I can encourage to grow up to do whatever she wants. I was surprised also that this is still, today, a problem for big companies like Facebook, Google etc. It inspires me to take action and help be the change that's needed by making the work environment more accepting and addressing head-on behavior that undermines that.'

#### The Robots are Coming 
It was very interesting to think about machine learning and the evolution into AI. I appreciated the input from many other students from different mods. This talk was relavant in that I have seen how this tech reaches into every corner of our lives now. Clearly we are on an exponential curve toward who knows what, cyborgs, androids, thinky robots that will continue to take on greater roles in our society. We already have computers that can beat us at chess and go it is only a matter of time before they are driving us all around and taking on more mineal tasks.

### E: Community Participation
#### Playing a Part

I need coffee to function and I always always make more coffee when we are out, knowing it is the life-blood that will propel use to greaty heights! I also have cleaned the kitchen a couple times and unloaded the dishwasher. I am a part of the LGBTuring community and the 3D Printing group. I have found a 3D project worth doing that makes prosthetic hands for children. 
------------------

### Final Review

### Notes

( Leave blanks for reviewers )

### Outcome

PENDING
