# Kris Foss - M2 Portfolio

## Individual
### Areas of Emphasis

This module I focussed on absorbing as much as I could from the tutorials, staying on track despite having less official checkpoints.  My rush hour group strove to really use Active Record over Ruby to be able to absorb the new material.  I have had some trouble with keeping all of the information fresh and accessible but I am committed to keeping up the fight and working towards success.  I also made a strong effort to participate more in community events and I have enjoyed all of those experiences.  


### End of Module Assessment

Assessed by: Rachel

###### Notes

* able to modify existing test to add new functionality
* able to generate migration to add new column to table
* wrote second integration test with some assistance
* able to scope capybara tests using within
* confusion with find vs. find_by vs. where


###### Evaluation Criteria:

###### Analytic/Algorithmic Thinking

* 3: Developer breaks complex problems into small, digestible steps and executes them

###### Ruby Syntax & Standard Library

* Score: 3.5

* 4: Developer is able to comfortably implement solutions using the best-choice tools Ruby has to offer
* 3: Developer is able to comfortably implement more than one solution in Ruby through refactoring

###### Rails Syntax & API

* 3: Developer is able to utilize Rails methods and structures, but needs occasional guidance

###### MVC & Rails Style

* 3: Developer generally writes clean Rails features that make smart use of Ruby, with some struggles in pushing logic down the stack

###### Testing

* 3: Developer writes tests at multiple layers of abstraction to drive development with guidance

###### Collaboration

* 3: Developer lays out their thinking before attacking a problem and integrates feedback throughout the process

### Mid-Module Assessment

Assessed by: Rachel
###### Evaluation Criteria

Subjective evaluation will be made on your work/process according to the following criteria:

###### Analytic/Algorithmic Thinking

* 3: Developer breaks complex problems into small, digestible steps and executes them

###### Ruby Syntax & Standard Library

* 3: Developer is able to comfortably implement solutions in Ruby

###### Rails Syntax & API

* 3: Developer is able to utilize Rails methods and structures, but needs some direct guidance

###### Rails Style

* 3: Developer generally writes clean Rails features that make smart use of Ruby, with some struggles in pushing logic down the stack

###### Testing

* 3: Developer uses tests at multiple layers of abstraction to drive development

###### Collaboration

* 2.5



### Attendance

This module I attended all days and classes on-time.

### Work

I completed the following individual work this module:

#### Kenny's School

* [GitHub Project URL](https://github.com/kristindiannefoss/kennys-school)


I used TDD to build a simple app that demonstrates my knowledge of rails restful routes and crud, MVC, name-spacing, as well as an understanding of ActiveRecord queries.  

# Team

### Projects

#### Rails Mini-Project

* [GitHub Project URL](https://github.com/kristindiannefoss/PointBox)

I worked with Matt Pindell for this project and learned a lot of the basics. His elegant and thorough development was fascinating to witness.  Matt really wanted to reach the end goal having used rspec for testing and pure html and css without using bootstrap.  Ultimately we worked separately so I could work at my own pace and he could achieve the more aggressive goals he was capable of.  

#### Skills Inventory CRUD

* [GitHub Project URL](https://github.com/kristindiannefoss/skill-inventory-crud)

Learning CRUD with a basic framework similar to Task Manager.  


#### Tool Chest

* [GitHub Project URL](https://github.com/kristindiannefoss/tool_chest)

Testing out new concepts on a sample rails project.

#### Mix Master

* [GitHub Project URL](https://github.com/kristindiannefoss/mix_master)

Following a tutorial to build our first Heroku deployed Rails App.


#### Rush Hour

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/JaredRoth/rush-hour)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool-examples/rush-hour-skeleton)

Team: Kris Foss & Claudia Kiesenhofer & Jared Roth

Evaluator: Andrew


Notes:

Great project overall, next time, focus on naming tests better, testing in particular to get the most out of it, opportunities for refactoring in the server, breaking out logic from controllers.  Pull apart telling it what to do as opposed to asking it things.  

###### Functional Expectations

* 3: Application fulfills base expectations

###### Test-Driven Development

* 3: Application is well tested but does not balance isolation and integration/feature tests

###### Encapsulation / Breaking Logic into Components

* 3: Application effectively breaks logical components apart but breaks the principle of SRP

###### Fundamental Ruby & Style

* 4: Application demonstrates excellent knowledge of Ruby syntax, style, and refactoring

###### Sinatra / Web and Business Logic

* 3: Application makes good use of Sinatra but has some mixing of the web and business logic.

###### View Layer

* 3.5: Application breaks components out to view partials but has some logic or complexity leaking into the view

While you won't be graded on workflow for Rush Hour, here's an example of how you will be evaluated on workflow later in the module:

###### Workflow (NOT GRADED)

* 3: Good use of branches, pull requests, and a project-management tool.



### Little Shop

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/kristindiannefoss/black_thursday)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/curriculum/blob/master/source/projects/black_thursday.markdown)

###### Evaluation:
Evaluated by Rachel

Notes:

Cart and orders look good.  No feature issues, bugs or crashes.  Good use of partials.  A couple of things to clean up but over all really good.  Wants to see more transparency in the test data, could use a little more code for this, more explicit, so that someone coming into the code base could understand.  

###### Feature Completeness

* 3: All features defined in the assignment are correctly implemented

###### Views

* 3: Views make use of layout(s), partials and helpers, but some logic leaks through

###### Controllers

* Score: 3.5

* 4: Controllers show significant effort to push logic down the stack
* 3: Controllers are generally well organized with three or fewer particularly ugly parts

###### Models

* Score: 3.5

* 4: Models show excellent organization, refactoring, and appropriate use of Rails features
* 3: Models show an effort to push logic down the stack, but need more internal refactoring

###### Testing

* 3: Project has a running test suite that tests and multiple levels but fails to cover some features

###### Usability

* 3: Project is highly usable, but needs more polish before it'd be customer-ready

###### Workflow

* Score: 3.5

* 4: Excellent use of branches, pull requests, and a project management tool.
* 3: Good use of branches, pull requests, and a project-management tool.


### Feedback to Me
Kris is a great addition to any team. She has creativity and knowledge past her own beliefs. She creates great code and has a great workflow that helps drive production. She's able to push through tough challenges with awesome efficiency. She's not afraid to ask the right questions when she comes across difficulty. My only criticism is that she needs more confidence in her code and focus on breaking problems down to smaller pieces. Kris is a hard worker an great teammate and I look forward to working with her in the future. - Mark Miranda

Kris is one of the most dedicated and diligent students in our class. I enjoyed working with her on Little Shop and really admire the way she took initiative to drive on several parts of the project. She has an outstanding work ethic and appreciates the value of collaboration. She is also one of the most caring and thoughtful people in our cohort. I hope she will always see herself through the caring appreciative eyes she sees other’s with and be confident in her skills. I know she will be a great developer with uniquely valuable design chops. - Deb Hamel


I really enjoyed working with both of you. It felt very easy to plan out the project and make decisions along the way looking at different option and come to a common place. I especially enjoyed our effort to find appropriate active record methods for all queries. I appreciated the way how you, Jared, articulated your thought processes in a way that it was easy to follow. Kris, it was amazing to see how you would constantly research on questions we had and create some of the views parallel to what we were working on. Our working style felt relaxed and effective at the same time. The only thing I would change is to  actively seek out more times to drive writing code. Thank you for a great group project experience. - Claudia Kiesenhofer

## Community
#### Posse:
I paired with Mark Miranda on an Exercism and did several on my own for my posse.

#### Hackathon:
I participated in the Palka Posse affordable housing app, helped refine the scope of the project, took part in the brainstorming process and user story creation, and built mockups of the view.  

#### Girl Develop It:
I volunteered to help as a TA during a portion of the Ruby Fundamentals class.

#### Joan Clark:
I participated in the networking Joan Clark Society meet ups at Common Grounds.

#### Mentor Sessions:
I had Morgan Miller as my mentor but some personal stuff came up for her and I just recently connected with Lydia Shafer.  In my sessions we have done Exorcisms and discussed what is needed for success in the field.

### Giving Feedback:
I provided the following feedback to other Turing Students:

Deb Hamel:
I really enjoyed being in a group with Deb.  She always brought her all and jumped in with a positive attitude.  She’s energetic and engaged and a lot of fun.  She’s passionate and determined and makes an effort to truly understand each part of the material.  She doesn’t cut corners and she works to find the best possible solution.  She was resolute in reaching the end of a challenging task and would always encourage us.  She perseveres through her own challenges and obstacles and knows herself well and what she needs to do to get to where she wants to be.  I hope her unwearied efforts will continue and she will continue to foster that greatness inside of her.  I can also say I really appreciate her kindness and nurturing nature.  When things are challenging, Deb is a loving glue that keeps people together.  She’s a great addition to any team.

Mark Miranda: I am so happy to have had the chance to work with Mark.  He’s methodical and precise, diligent and determined.  He is inclusive and encouraging.  Mark’s programming skills are incredibly advanced.  It was great to be working alongside him and hearing his problem solving process.  He has an insatiable drive to succeed and enthusiasm to learn more and he is inspiring to watch.  I have learned a lot from being in his group.  As a very strong technical programmer, he took a project lead role and helped guide us towards a beautiful finished product.  He is a great leader and he shows respect and patience.  If I had to offer criticism, I would ask him if he doesn’t push himself too hard, and if he gives himself credit for the amazing work he produces, but maybe that’s part of what lights the fire inside of him.  Not only is he brilliant, beyond talented, but he’s also a great person and someone you would want on your team or in your office.


Claudia Kiesenhofer: Claudia is wonderful to work with.  She smart, kind, and inquisitive.  She takes the time to really break down a problem and make sure she understands each piece of the whole.  She’s a tireless and relentless problem solver.  I haven’t seen her get frustrated but only more determined.  Claudia works really well with a team and was great at creating a productive and enthusiastic culture for our group.  When it came to road blocks, she was patient and took the time to do things the right way the first time.  She is also very nurturing and generous and made sure we were never short of snacks and chocolate.  Working with Claudia was a pleasure and I’m grateful I had the chance to get to know her.

### Playing a Part
* I took detailed notes this module and shared them in a public channel for anyone to use.  
* I did a lightning talk on the Elements and Principles of Design
* I wrote a few blog posts:
[Bootstrap and TTL](http://codeschoolforwizardsstarttofinish.blogspot.com/2016/03/ttl-time-to-live.html), [Creating a Linked List, Again](http://codeschoolforwizardsstarttofinish.blogspot.com/2016/03/ttl-time-to-live.html)
