# Kris Foss - M5 Portfolio
## Individual

### Areas of Emphasis

This module has been an incredible blessing to me.  I presented about as ready as I felt and not promoting me was not only an accurate assessment of my skill level, but also the best thing for me as a developer.  

I have had the chance to fill in the gaps in my knowledge and solidify the things that were lacking when I was in mod 4.  I have also had the opportunity to gain new skills I really wanted to learn and I am a stronger hire for it.  I have absolutely loved the front end and I probably would have been better off there but I am happy for my backend knowledge and I am a better frontend programmer for it.  

This whole repeat/enhancement has been a lot of guesswork.  What should I shoot to come out of it with, where do I stand in comparison to the cohort I'm joining, what are my expectations for myself and what can I be expected to produce.  It was a special circumstance and I'm grateful for the chance to take advantage of it.  

I took the contract job in the beginning of the mod and decided to split my efforts between the work and the classwork.  It was an effort to work towards becoming a professional developer and it is a project I am really enjoying.  I think Dale is happy with the work and the experience on my resume is valuable.  On the other hand, I wasn't as present as I could have been if this wasn't a priority in addition to job searching/ interviews/ networking that are priorities of a mod 4 student.  So I missed out in that way.  But I feel like I made a good hybrid module out of it and I'm walking away with some red hot front end skills so I'm really happy with it.  

I'll miss Turing but I'm ready to get out of the unsustainable pace.  I'd like a life again.  I'll be leaving with deep appreciation and love for the people here.  

### End of Module Assessment

* [Repo](https://github.com/kristindiannefoss/ModFiveFinal)
* Final Evaluation: Scrabble
* Student: Kris Foss
* Instructor: Brenna

Notes: CRUSHED IT. Confident when writing react syntax, actively pulls out logic into small functions both in javascript and react syntax. Is comfortable writing ES6 syntax directly in render function but swiftly pulls it out when necessary. Incorporates dependencies like lodash and ES6 fluidly for well refactored and intentional javascript. Only criticism is a hesitation to vocalize if confused or stuck - which was rare!

##### Progression/Completion
3+: Developer is able to implement solutions at the speed of a junior developer.

##### JavaScript Style
4: Developer writes code that is exceptionally clear and well-factored

##### Workflow
4: Developer is a master of their tools, efficiently moving between phases of development

##### Collaboration
3: Developer lays out their thinking before attacking a problem and integrates feedback through the process


***
### Individual Work
***

#### Community Economics Lab

I was hired by Dale in mod 1 for an app he is working on for economic analysis.  The app is still in development and is not yet deployed but I'll have a rails server spun up and ready to show these links:

* [Repo](https://github.com/kristindiannefoss/ModFiveFinal)
* [Before: Program Jurisdictions List](http://nmjc.thecelab.org/program_jurisdictions)
* [After: Program Jurisdictions List](http://localhost:3000/program_jurisdictions)


* [Before: Program Jurisdiction Data](http://nmjc.thecelab.org/program_jurisdictions/4)
* [After: Program Jurisdiction Data](http://localhost:3000/program_jurisdictions/4)


Codevelop a concept RoR application for use in the public sector. Reconfigure Rails MVC to maximize good UX. Restructure database calls to allow for relational searches and filtering. Build internal API to return JSON data for charting. Integrate front end framework and design UI for application. Evaluate and adapt the presentation of data to increase readability.
Stack: Ruby on Rails, MySQL, JavaScript, Sass


Fun Code Stippets:
```
function checkForPJShowPage(){
	var pj = $('.pj-id');
	var id = pj.data('pj-id');
	if(window.location.pathname.includes(String(id)) && window.location.pathname.includes("program_jurisdictions")){
		google.charts.load('current', {packages:['corechart']});
		google.charts.setOnLoadCallback(drawCharts);
	}
}

checkForPJShowPage();

// window.location.pathname.includes("4") && window.location.pathname.includes("program_jurisdictions"))

function drawCharts() {
	var pj = $('.pj-id');
	var id = pj.data('pj-id');

	  $.ajax({
	    type: 'GET',
	    url: '/api/v1/program_jurisdictions/' + id,
	    dataType: 'JSON',
	    success: function(response){
//////// THEATER PIE CHART /////////////////////
				var first = response[0];
				var data = google.visualization.arrayToDataTable(first);

				var options = {
					is3D: true,
					colors: ['#480507', '#930E13','#C5141B', '#F71A23', '#F9484F', '#FB767B', '#FDA4A7', '#FFD2D3' ],
					height: 400,
					chartArea:{left:30,top:20,width:"95%",height:"87%"}
				};

				var pieChart = new google.visualization.PieChart(document.getElementById('piechart_3d'));
				pieChart.draw(data, options);

//////// POPULATION AREA CHART /////////////////////
				var second = response[1];
				var poplData = google.visualization.arrayToDataTable(second);
				var popOptions = {
						legend: { position: "none" },
				    hAxis: {title: 'Population'},
				    vAxis: {minValue: 0},
						colors: ['#f71a23'],
				  };

				var popChart = new google.visualization.AreaChart(document.getElementById('pop-chart-div'));
				popChart.draw(poplData, popOptions);

//////// WORKFORCE AREA CHART /////////////////////
				var third = response[2];
				var workforceData = google.visualization.arrayToDataTable(third);
				var workforceOptions = {
						legend: { position: "none" },
				    hAxis: {title: 'Workforce Participation Percentage'},
				    vAxis: {minValue: 0},
						colors: ['#930E13'],
				  };

				var workforceChart = new google.visualization.AreaChart(document.getElementById('workforce-chart-div'));
				workforceChart.draw(workforceData, workforceOptions);

//////// BASE JOBS AREA CHART /////////////////////
				var fourth = response[3];
				var baseJobsData = google.visualization.arrayToDataTable(fourth);
				var baseJobsOptions = {
						legend: { position: "none" },
				    hAxis: {title: 'Base Jobs Percentage'},
				    vAxis: {minValue: 0},
						colors: ['#FB767B'],
				  };

				var baseJobsChart = new google.visualization.AreaChart(document.getElementById('basejobs-chart-div'));
				baseJobsChart.draw(baseJobsData, baseJobsOptions);

///////////////////////////////////////////////////
	    }
	  });

}


function getNewPercentage(value, percent) {
  var parsedValue = parseFloat(value.replace(',',''));
  var parsedPercent = parseFloat(percent)/100;
  return (parsedValue * parsedPercent);
}

function getOrganicJobs(newJobValue, programJobs){
  var newJobs = parseFloat(newJobValue.replace(',',''));
  return Number(newJobs - programJobs).toLocaleString('en');
}

function sumRows(array){
  var makeIntsArray = array.map(function() {
    return parseFloat(($(this).text()).replace(',',''));
  });

  return _.sum(makeIntsArray);
}

function sumJobsRows(targetCellID, rowsToSumClass){
  $(targetCellID).text(
    sumRows(
      $(rowsToSumClass)
    )
  );
}

function populateTable(e){
  $('#piechart_3d').hide();

  var jobRow = $(e.target).parent().children('.chart-job-value').text();
  var jobPercent = $(e.target).parent().children('.jobs-percent').text();

  var newTotal = getNewPercentage(jobRow, jobPercent);
  $(e.target).parent().children('.program-jobs-calculated').text(newTotal);

  var newJobRow = $(e.target).parent().children('.chart-job-value').text();
  var ogJobs = getOrganicJobs(newJobRow, newTotal);

  $(e.target).parent().children('.og-jobs-calculated').text(ogJobs);

  sumJobsRows('#jobs-total', '.chart-job-value');
  sumJobsRows('#program-jobs-total', '.program-jobs-calculated');
  sumJobsRows('#og-jobs-total', '.og-jobs-calculated');
}

$('.changer').on('keydown', function(e){
  $('#number-error').hide();
  if ( e.which == '13' ){
    e.preventDefault();
    if ( e.target.textContent == '' ){
      // $('#number-error').show();
      $(e.target).addClass('bad-entry');
    } else {
      populateTable(e);
      $('td').removeClass('bad-entry');
    }
  }
});
```

***
# Team
***
### Projects

#### A Very Lonely Chat Room
* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/bretthev/chatroom-adventures)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/chatroom.html)

###### Team: Brett Hevia, Madison Kerndt, Kris Foss.


###### Specification Adherence
3 - The application consists of one page with all of the major functionality being provided by jQuery. No approach was taken that is counter to the spirit of the project and its learning goals. There are no features missing from above that make the application feel incomplete or hard to use.

###### User Interface
2.5 - color contrast and choice issues, line lengths are pretty long on big screens, icons need a little clarity. very good start, needs some polish.

###### HTML Style
3: Developer solves structural problems with a balance between conciseness and clarity. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code and every tag and selector is doing.

###### CSS/Sass Style
3: Application is thoughtfully put together with some duplication and no major bugs. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of CSS/Sass is doing.

###### JavaScript Style
3.5 - Application is thoughtfully put together with some duplication and no major bugs. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code is doing.

###### Testing  
4 - Project has a running test suite that exercises the application at multiple levels (feature and unit). The test suite covers almost all aspects of the application.

###### Workflow  
4 - The developer effectively uses Git branches and many small, atomic commits that document the evolution of their application.

###### Code Sanitation  
4 - Zero complaints

###### Design
2.5 - feels like they didn't have enough to get through implementation. really good start, very interesting direction.


### Tier-Two
* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/Peter-Springer/tier-two)
* [Deployed](https://budget-app-f46b3.firebaseapp.com/)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/tier-two.html)

#### Instructor: Jhun, Brenna (Design)
#### Team: Brett Hevia, Peter Springer, Casey Metz, Kris Foss.
#### Notes:

- spec adherence was kind of soft but they delivered a working application! (i'd use it)
- tests checked for existence and thats about it.
- pumped group took risks

#### Design
- Enjoyed the design choices for landing page, team worked hard to write mobile-friendly markup. Good use of limited fancy-styles ($ amount) and streamline white font. Color scheme on landing page is well thought out. Criticisms fall only on index page where the box size hinders user's view of past purchases. Also red color button is out of place. Would like to see a simplified/easier to view display box (roped into UI score).

- User interface could use some clarification. Does it take dollars with or without decimal? When it says "date" can I say "today" or do I need to put in numbers and in what order?

##### Specification Adherence
3 - No approach was taken that is counter to the spirit of the project and its learning goals. There are no features missing from above that make the application feel incomplete or hard to use.

##### Risk Taking and Creativity
3.5 - The project shows that the developers carefully considered their approach and were able to implement concepts taught over the last two weeks. The application shows evidence that developers dug deep into documentation for the technologies they used and experimented with different approaches.

##### Design
4 - The application is visually appealing and shows thoughtful and effective use of typography, color, and layout. The application looks professional, with visuals enhancing the user’s experience. The evaluator has very few recommended changes.

##### User Interface
3 - The application has many strong pages/interactions, but a few holes in lesser-used functionality.

##### HTML Style
4: Developer is able to craft HTML that is semantically correct and clearly organized. There are zero instances where an instructor would recommend taking a different approach. Developer writes markup that is exceptionally clear and well-factored. Application is expertly organized and logically structured with with thoughtful use of tags and selectors.

##### CSS/Sass Style
4: Application has exceptionally well-factored CSS/Sass with little or no duplication and all styles separated out into logical stylesheets. There are zero instances where an instructor would recommend taking a different approach.

##### JavaScript Style
3- Application is thoughtfully put together with some duplication and no major bugs. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code is doing.

##### Testing
3 - Project has a running test suite that tests and multiple levels but fails to cover some features. All functionality is covered by tests. The application has robust unit tests and makes some use of feature testing where appropriate and applicable.

##### Workflow
4 - The developer effectively uses Git branches and many small, atomic commits that document the evolution of their application.

##### Code Sanitation
The output from a code sanitizer (either JSHint or ESLint) shows…

4 - Zero complaints


### Shoot the Breeze
* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/kristindiannefoss/shoot-the-breeze/tree/responsive)
* [Deployed](https://shoot-the-breeze-53743.firebaseapp.com/)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/)


##### Specification Adherence
3 - The application consists of one page with all of the major functionality being provided by React. No approach was taken that is counter to the spirit of the project and its learning goals. There are no features missing from above that make the application feel incomplete or hard to use.

##### Component Architecture
3 - Application is broken in out into at least 8 components that properly encapsulate functionality. There is no more than one component that could be broken down into composite parts.

##### User Interface
3 - The application has many strong pages/interactions, but a few holes in lesser-used functionality.

##### CSS/Sass Style
4: Application has exceptionally well-factored CSS/Sass with little or no duplication and all styles separated out into logical stylesheets. There are zero instances where an instructor would recommend taking a different approach.

##### JavaScript Style

3- Application is thoughtfully put together with some duplication and no major bugs. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code is doing.

##### Testing
3 - Project has a running test suite that tests and multiple levels but fails to cover some features. All functionality is covered by tests. The application makes some use of feature testing.


##### Workflow
3 - The developer makes a series of small, atomic commits that document the evolution of their application. There are no formatting issues in the code base.


##### Code Sanitation
The output from a code sanitizer (either JSHint or ESLint) shows…

3 - Five or fewer complaints

##### Design
4 - The application is visually appealing and shows thoughtful and effective use of typography, color, and layout. The application looks professional, with visuals enhancing the user's experience. The evaluator has very few recommended changes.


***
## Community
***

### Giving Feedback

Madison Kerndt:  "Working with Madison was wonderful.  She is incredibly positive and enthusiastic.  She meets challenges with a sense of curiosity and determination and it’s a pleasure to be part of finding the solution with her.  Her projects are well executed and throughly researched.  She is tenacious and wants to understand the code inside and out.  I’ve been really impressed by the combination of this passion, skill, and creativity she demonstrates.  She shows grace under fire and will make an excellent addition to any development team.  I can’t wait to see what she does with all of her talent."


Casey Metz:  "I deeply enjoyed working with Casey.  He has a great design eye and built some beautiful comps.  He came up with the concept that branded the app and it was really well received.  He is very empathetic and has a good sense of what needs to be done to color the climate of a group.  I regret not taking more of this project on and missing the chance to work with him more.  I popped in and out and tried to add what I could but I split my priorities too much and I didn’t feel like I brought much to the table.  He always took the time to bring me back into the project and was consistently welcoming and encouraging.  He seems to take on challenges and road blocks with patience, determination, and a sense of humor.  The code he creates is really impressive and he is able to grasp it with remarkable precision.  I would love to work with Casey again and I’m so glad I had the chance to get to know him."

### Being a Community Member
"Kris, your calm whole demeanor was extremely refreshing in the high pressure environment of Turing. I felt that we connected on a deeper level around true motivations and future aspirations. It was great to get some perspective on what the job searching process will look like. In working on lonely chatroom I was impressed by your ability to drop into a problem and find the bug. Also your design ability is amazing. Good luck in your job search and I hope to get the chance to work with you again in the future." -Madison Kerndt

"I was in Kris’s group for the Tier-Two project. Although she had time constraints due to some pressing contract work, she still made time to contribute valuable input to our project, especially in terms of design and styling. Due to her conflicting (but well-communicated!) obligations, Kris received some unfairly brusque attitude from one of our group members, and it seemed to damage her confidence. I’d encourage Kris to reflect on how much hard work she’s put into Turing, and how much she’s learned. She deserves to let herself feel proud and confident, and I hope she practices embracing her accomplishments." -Casey Metz

### Professional Skills

##### DTR Memo
Project: Chatroom Adventure

Group Member Names: Brett, Kris, & Madison

Project Expectations: What does each group member hope to get out of this project? Goals and expectations:
* Brett: get comfortable with build tools, strong on javascript, work on sass.
* Madison: work on testing, work on file structure/build tools, work on allotted time for project.
* Kris: work on testing,  functionality of webpack
Schedule Expectations: When are we available to work together and individually?
* Brett: Tue - 4-8:30 pm busy, Thu - 5-8pm busy
* Madison: Tue- 5-7pm busy Tue lunch - busy, Sat - 11am- 1pm busy
* Kris: Monday - 6pm;
Communication Expectations: How and often will we communicate? How do we keep lines of communication open?
* Brett: as often as needed, Slack giphy, text
* Madison: as often as needed, Slack, text
Abilities Expectations: Technical strengths and areas for desired improvement:
* Brett:  strength:  JavaScript improvement:  CSS
* Madison: strength:  JavaScript/JQuery  improvement:  Testing
* Kris:  strength: AJAX improvement:  Testing
Workload Expectations: What features do we each want to work on?
* Trippling
Workflow Expectations: Git workflow/Tools/Code Review/Reviewing Pull Requests:
Expectations for giving and receiving feedback:
* address problem before it happens
* blunt/ honest feedback
* respectful communication

## Review

### Rubric Scores

* **A: End-of-Module Assessment**: 3
* **B: Individual Work & Projects**: 3
* **C: Group Work & Projects**: 3
* **D: Community Participation**: 3
* **E: Peer & Instructor Feedback**: 3

### Notes

### Outcome

PROMOTED
