# Kris Foss - M1 Portfolio

## Individual
### Areas of Emphasis

This module was a crash course in Ruby and programming in general for me, my
goals were to get fluent enough to meet the requirements.  My ultimate goal is
to excel programming but as a more achievable goal, I just wanted to become
functional.  You cannot build well on a spotty foundation.  

It is hard to define a particular area of emphasis, given the voids that needed
to be filled in my tool box.  In six weeks, I will have gone from barely
comprehending pragmatic studio, to writing a full on enigma encryptor, participating
in groups that created a web server, and a program that parses analyses csv files.  I have
spent time doing enums exercises, ruby exercises, exercisms, and having pairings
with my mentors to work out where I need the most improvement.  I truly feel
I have put 100% into this module and into making this the best next chapter of
my life.  I have come really far and I'm proud of what I have done and who I
have become.  

### End of Module Assessment

Assessed By: Horace

Challenge: Shopping List

Students will be evaluated according to the following rubric:

Notes
* Start was strong -- good with making new classes, new methods; got ivars and readers set up quickly
* Testing was smooth; felt like whenever we came up with a test case your were able to write it
* got lost a bit in the middle around breaking the problem down into small enough chunks
* don't let up on the pseudocode, pry experimentation, etc etc -- whatever helps break the problem down into smaller chunks
* extra points for double shopping list

Ruby Syntax & API
* 3: Developer is able to write Ruby with some debugging of fundamental concepts

Completion and Progress
* 3: Developer completes baseline assignment and makes meaningful progress toward one of the Challenge options.

Testing
* 3: Developer writes tests that are effective validation of functionality, but don't drive the design

Workflow
* 3: Developer demonstrates comfort with their tools and makes some use of keyboard shortcuts

Collaboration
* 3: Developer lays out their thinking before attacking a problem and integrates feedback through the process

Enumerable & Collections
* 3: Application demonstrates comfortable use of appropriate Enumerable methods


### Attendance

This module I attended all days and classes on-time.

### Work

I completed the following individual work this module:

### Jungle Beats

* [GitHub Project URL](https://github.com/kristindiannefoss/jungle_beats)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/curriculum/blob/master/source/projects/jungle_beat.markdown)

In this project I implemented a linked list. I struggled with the concepts in the linked list model and decided to make the linked list something concrete I could wrap my head around.  In my delirium and code confusion the first thing that came to me was elephants.  It was easier for me to imagine a line of elephants, holding on to each others tails, with a sound in their mouths, than to picture nodes with links.  It was my intention to translate the code back into node and list format but I ran out of time.  My first project was a lesson in time management and reaching out instead of spending hours trying to figure everything out myself.  

It was evaluated by Mike with the following results:

Notes:
* 10 runs, 8 assertions
* Used elephants and lines of elephants to implement a linked list.
* Good use of looping to traverse said linked list.
* Good division of logic between line and elephants.

Functional Expectations
* 1: Application is missing more than one base expectation

Test-Driven Development
* 2: Application makes some use of tests, but the coverage is insufficient

Encapsulation / Breaking Logic into Components
* 3: Application effectively breaks logical components apart but breaks the principle of SRP

Fundamental Ruby & Style
* 3:  Application shows strong effort towards organization, content, and refactoring

Looping *or* Recursion
* 3: Application makes effective use of loop/recursion techniques

### Enigma

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/kristindiannefoss/enigma)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/curriculum/blob/master/source/projects/enigma.markdown)

In this week-long project I built an encoding machine. It was
evaluated by Mike with the following results:

Notes:
* 18 tests, good coverage, does look at some edge cases.
* Runner does not work, some issues with randomized key generation, that caused
issues, when running.
* Well thought out code, decrypting and encrypting methods work in pry
* Crack method also works using the brute force method.
* Some opportunities to refactor by pulling out methods into classes
for purposes of organization, some repetition in code.

Overall Functionality
* 1: Application is missing two operations or crashes during normal usage

Fundamental Ruby & Style
* 3:  Application shows some effort toward organization but still has 6 or fewer long methods (> 8 lines) and needs some refactoring.

Test-Driven Development
* 3: Application uses tests to exercise core functionality, but has some gaps in coverage or leaves edge cases untested.

Breaking Logic into Components
* 3: Application has multiple components with defined responsibilities but there is some leaking of responsibilities

# Team

### Projects

### HTTPYYKM

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/lingtran/HTTPYYKM)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/curriculum/blob/master/source/projects/http_yeah_you_know_me.markdown)

Evaluated by Horace

Notes
Ling & Kris --
* like all the notes and brainstorming docs
* Got a DTR doc in the repo waaaat !!
* Had a few hiccups around game functionality but were able to troubleshoot them fairly quickly
* Project organizes responsibilities around a central Server class which includes various modules to handle the specific jobs it needs (responding, parsing requests, etc etc)
* Tricky problem with this organizational approach is it still allows us to intermix all the instance variables between the class and its various modules -- the modules we have actually depend on the set up and values of various ivars in other modules or the base class to function properly
* Lots of use of modules which is cool; hopefully learned a lot from that
* Some good variety of tests - hitting some integration tests with faraday; some unit tests with modules etc
* nice use of faraday to hit the server in the tests
* collaboration process seems to have been healthy and successful

Overall Functionality

* 3: Application implements iterations 0 - 4

Fundamental Ruby & Style

* 3:  Application shows some effort toward organization but still has 6 or fewer long methods (> 8 lines) and needs some refactoring.

Test-Driven Development

* 3: Application uses tests to exercise core functionality and some edge cases, but fails to break out component objects/tests.

Breaking Logic into Components

* 3: Application has multiple components with defined responsibilities but there is some leaking of responsibilities

### Black Thursday

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/kristindiannefoss/black_thursday)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/curriculum/blob/master/source/projects/black_thursday.markdown)

Assessed By: Mike

Notes:
* Spec harness passes, in 1 minute, 18 seconds.
* Only Iteration 4.
* 137 examples finished in 1 minute and 39.3 seconds.
* There are opportunities to refactor out unnecessary variable assignment
with new methods.
* Very interesting approach to repo and item creation, really like how
thats broken out.
* Some math stuff would like to have seen in its own object, be it a class
or a module or something.

Functional Expectations
* 3: Application implements iterations 0, 1, 2, 3, and either 4 or 5

Test-Driven Development
* 3: Application is well tested but does not balance isolation and integration tests, using only the data necessary to test the functionality

Encapsulation / Breaking Logic into Components
* 3: Application effectively breaks logical components apart but breaks the principle of SRP

Fundamental Ruby & Style
* 4:  Application demonstrates excellent knowledge of Ruby syntax, style, and refactoring

Enumerable & Collections
* 3: Application demonstrates comfortable use of appropriate Enumerable methods

Code Sanitation

The output from `rake sanitation:all` shows...

* 4: Zero complaints


### Feedback to Me

"Kris has worked incredibly hard this module, and has made tremendous progress. She has exhibited both tenacity, drive, a willingness to step beyond her comfort zone, as well as growth. If I were to say anything critical about her, I would say that she does need to believe that she does belong here, and will be a great developer, and that she has made it this far on her own merits and determination, and that success is something that can be attained at her current trajectory." - Mike Dao

"Kris is very kind in her communication so it was productive bouncing ideas with one another. As a team, we can be more hands-on in utilizing pry from the start, which we ultimately did toward the end of our pairing sessions. Kris has a helpful approach to conceptualizing the presented problems with her sketches, so she should keep that up. She has really good ideas and can benefit from having more confidence in speaking about them! =)" -Ling Tran

“Kris works really hard and embodies qualities any person would seek in a team member. She is calm and thoughtful. She is great at asking questions. Early on in the project we did experience some clashing in work styles, but because she is communicative, we were proactive in talking through the issues. This smoothed out the kinks and we always felt like a team unit in tackling the project. One thing Kris can work on is not being so hard on herself. Her self-doubt seemed to get the best of her sometimes. She is logical and capable of problem-solving as seen in working on the project, so I hope she can fortify self-awareness in this regard! You've got this, Kris!  - Ling "

"Kris was the first person I paired with today who went through the tests provided to identify all of the methods that the Robot class needed to have. It was just an approach that no one else brought to the problem that I thought was both refreshing and pretty smart. To me, it showed a real understanding of the testing process, the relationship between tests and the code it's testing, and just a general sense of how code works (i.e. the relationship between an object and its methods)." - Sal Espinosa

"I've worked with Kris all module in our renewed Matsumoto posse, and I've really enjoyed watching her grow as a developer. Kris has a strong desire to learn and work ethic, and even with a difficult commute in from DTC she has made attending posse on time a priority during her first six weeks at Turing. As we work on challenges together or talk through her projects, it's clear Kris has managed to stay afloat during her time here by putting in solid effort to learn foundational concepts. I'm excited to see how she takes on her second module here! Keep up the great work Kris :)" - Sekhar Paladugu

"Relaxation and meditation, with a sense of logic and clarity is the best way to describe Kris. I had the opportunity to pair with her throughout Module 1 and all I can say is WOW! Her approach to the projects and challenges are both logical and methodical, she clearly understands the functionality of concepts needed to be a great programmer.  Her notes are clear and concise.  She's also a really cool person who makes you always feel relaxed when she’s around as well as guilty since she is so healthy and the yoga thing is really cool too. I know that Kris will be a very successful programmer and make a huge impact in the tech world!" - Alireza Andersen

"Having worked with Kris before I had a good sense of what I was getting into. Towards the end of the project, Kris turned to me and said, “at least we had fun,” and I would agree. Kris is easy to work with, helped me think through our problems, and also helped to keep me grounded when things got tough. I liked being able to bounce ideas off of her, and counted on her to catch mistakes when I was implementing code. I think Kris has a good sense of what’s going on, and is already very aware of the Ruby items that she needs to work on. It was good to talk to her and hear that she’s already put a plan in place to get stronger in a couple of areas over break. The one thing I would say is that I think sometimes that self-awareness can go overboard; it’s good to see Kris identifying items that could use work, but hurts to see her sometimes overestimate how far she has to go. I’d like to see her apply that same self-awareness to acknowledge the contributions she makes." - Sal Espinosa

## Community
#### Posse Challenges:

  This module I had near perfect attendance at our posse meetings.  While I cannot say I was a huge contributor to the challenges, being brand new, I did learn a great deal from my more experienced posse members.  And if nothing else, I was there, on that couch and ready to soak up knowledge into my brain sponge at 8:30, every day.  

  The Posse Challenge I found most interesting was the Caeser cypher.  It came at a really good time, right before the Enigma and Nightrider projects dropped.  Watching Erinna and Sekhar take it apart was good preparation for Enigma.  Some of the projects we got through together, but many were complex and got completed by the later module students.  I can't really take credit for the work, but I can say that I was there when I was supposed to be.  
#### [Matz Posse Repo](https://github.com/erinnachen/matz-posse-challenges)

* [Code Breakers](https://github.com/turingschool/posse_challenges/blob/master/codebreakers/codebreakers.md)

* [College Scorecard Challenge](https://github.com/turingschool/posse_challenges/blob/master/college_scorecard/README.markdown)

* [People Database](https://github.com/turingschool/posse_challenges/blob/master/people_database/README.markdown)

* [Enumerables](https://github.com/turingschool/posse_challenges/blob/master/procs_and_enums/README.md)

* [Turing Tower Transfer Puzzle](https://github.com/turingschool/posse_challenges/blob/master/turing_tower_transfer/tower.md)

### Giving Feedback
I provided the following feedback to other Turing Students:

Erinna Chen : “Erinna has been a great fixture in my posse.  She is here every day without exception.  She’s kind of a legend around here, well known in all the modules for her depth of expertise.  I have yet to see a project she can’t handle or one that even ruffles her feathers in a minor way.  She’s calm and collected and hard working.  It also seems programming is in her nature and it’s just a matter of being exposed to new things before she can do them in her sleep.  She’s been approachable and available when I’ve come to her in code desperation with a clear and logical solution.  I’m grateful that I get to spend time with her and get to know her through my posse set up."

Sekhar Paladugu : "Sekhar has been a great mentor for the incoming posse members.  He’s welcoming and encouraging and despite his vast programming knowledge he doesn’t talk down to people with less experience.  He always takes the time to check in with us and ask us if we need anything.  He’s been a great source of support through this rough first module.  He has also gone out of his way to be at posse meetings every day, even though he’s practically out in the workforce.  I feel lucky to have had him in our posse and I know he’ll find a great job."

Alireza Andersen : "Working with Ali is incredible.  He’s got such a depth of understanding for programming and a true passion for it.  He goes the extra mile to cover edge cases and extensions.  His drive and tenacity are really inspiring.  I also see an insatiable thirst for knowledge and I know his programming skills will continue to grow exponentially.  In addition to being tireless and willing to drag himself through days on end of no sleep to complete a project to it’s full extension, he is incredibly giving.  He is selfless and generous and even in the depth of his own project deadline, at the eleventh hour, he is willing to jump in and rescue others who are struggling.  He’s a wonderful friend and class mate.  Ali is also a social ambassador for our cohort, and he naturally draws people together.  It’s a privilege to be  in Ali’s glowing presence and I enjoy anything from grabbing a drink to digging through and debugging code along with him.  He will make a great addition to any workplace."

Sal Espinosa : "It is hard to pin down one thing in particular that went well when looking back at my group project with Sal.  It’s difficult to choose just one complement.  Sal is incredibly smart and methodical.  He is wonderful at collaborating and though his skills exceed mine, he never left me in the dust.  He brought us to the solutions together, we talked through rough patches with breaking them down on paper, and it was a great learning experience.  Sal expertly crafts code and seems to spin it effortlessly.  He has a deep understanding of how objects and classes interact.  I couldn’t have asked for a better partner in such a meaty, interwoven project.  It would have been easier to build some of the methods in a clunky, duct tape way, but Sal pushed to continue to refine them, to clean and tidy the code until it really shone.  He’s calm under pressure, reassuring, and inclusive, in addition to being a brilliant programmer.  At one point, Sal mentioned that he had been told in his Pairin survey that he could use more confidence when coding, which blew my mind.  I had a hard time believing someone with such skill could doubt themselves.  If anything all all, he could work on internalizing his own awesome abilities and eliminate this lack of confidence entirely.    It was a sincere pleasure working with Sal and I count myself lucky to have been paired with him.  Love you man."

### Soft Skills
Soft is the new black
* [DTR memo](https://github.com/lingtran/HTTPYYKM/blob/master/DTR_22FEB2016.md)

* [Pull Request](https://github.com/kristindiannefoss/black_thursday/pull/24)

* [Pull Request](https://github.com/kristindiannefoss/black_thursday/pull/12)

* [Readme](https://github.com/kristindiannefoss/enigma)

### Playing a Part
* I took copious detailed notes this module and shared them in a public channel for anyone to use.  
* I wrote a blog that includes posts on Collections Methods and Enumerables with links that can be used as a quick reference, as well as a post on healthy and fast recipes to avoid getting sick and eating all junk while living the life of a Turing basement mole.

* [Collections Methods](http://codeschoolforwizardsstarttofinish.blogspot.com/2016/02/mid-mod-diagnostic.html)

* [Enumerables](http://codeschoolforwizardsstarttofinish.blogspot.com/)
