# Jack Yeh - M4 Portfolio

## Individual

### Areas of Emphasis

### End of Module Assessment

#### Tinder-carious

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/jxandery/group-tindering/)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/lesson_plans/blob/master/ruby_03-professional_rails_applications/self_directed_project.markdown)

**Completion:**               3 - Developer completed all the user stories and requirements set by the client.
**Organization:**             3 - Developer used a project management tool to keep their project organized.
**Test-Driven Development:**  3 - Project shows adequate testing (90% - 95% coverage).
**Code Quality:**             3 - Project demonstrates solid code quality and MVC principles.
**User Experience:**          3 - Project exhibits a production-ready user experience.
**Performance:**              3 - Project pages load on average under 400 milliseconds.

### Work

#### Learning Rails Exercism

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/jxandery/learning-rails-exercism)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/curriculum/blob/master/source/projects/apicurious.markdown)

**Completion:                 3.5
**Organization:**             4
**Test-Driven Development:**  4
**Code Quality:**             4
**User Experience:**          4

#### Rales Engine

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/jxandery/rails-engine)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/curriculum/blob/master/source/projects/rales_engine.markdown)

**Completion:**               3: Project completes most requirements but fails 5 or fewer spec harness tests.
**Code Quality:**             3: Project demonstrates solid code quality and MVC principles.
**API Design:**               3: Project uses strong and consistent data formats throughout, while relying mostly on standard Rails JSON features.
**Test Driven Development:**  4: Project demonstrates high test coverage (>90%) and tests at the controller and unit levels.
**Queries:**                  3: Project makes good use of ActiveRecord, but drops to ruby enumerables for some query methods.

## Team

### Projects

#### The Pivot

* [GitHub URL](http://github.com/adamcaron/the_pivot)
* [Original Assignment]()

Jack Yeh, Adam Caron, Dave Maurer

**Feature Completion:**       1: Team completed the user stories and requirements partially.
**Project Organization:**     2: Team used a project management tool but didn't update the progress frequently.
**Test-Driven Development:**  1: Code coverage was below 70%
**Code Quality:**             3: What code was there was excellent, but it was clear that there were large gaps due to the missing stories. Their cart in particular had almost no code. I wouldn't feel comfortable giving a higher grade with so many potential code monsters left unexplored.
**User Experience:**          2: Project exhibits some gaps in the UX.

## Community

### Giving Feedback

### Being a Community Member
"Jack is one of the most thoughtful, knowledgable, and pleasant team member's I've worked with. During our project, Jack had to leave town for the weekend. Halfway around the world, he was communicating with us, submitting pull requests with meaningful contributions, and participating in team meetings: more than anyone could ask from a team member. I've learned a lot working with Jack and thoroughly enjoyed having him as a classmate. “ - Adam Caron
"Jack is perfect" ~ Sally
“I think the dynamics of 1505 would have been very different without Jack. You are really great to be around and working with you makes me a more mindful developer. I see you helping a lot of students in other cohorts and I wish I had energy to do that as well! You are a great developer, an even better friend and I’m excited to do module 4 with you!" ~ Lovisa

### Playing a Part
I volunteered at Rocky Mountain Ruby for 3 days.

## Review

### Notes

* Take away this time for mod 3 were to apply everything he could do to his projects and to tighten everything up so it was portfolio ready. 
* Dont push to heroku morning of completion
* Very interested in APIs - they are powerful and fairly simple
* Tried to put react in his personal project, but had to rip it out in order to complete. 
* Gained more of a familiarity with heroku this time around. 

### Outcome

Pass
