# Jai Misra - M3 Portfolio

## Individual

### Your Mission

I set out to be disciplined, hard-working, and quick during Module 3. I wanted to be organized and effective in terms of how I
approached the project work. I wanted to dedicate myself like I had never dedicated myself at Turing and reap those rewards.
Based on that metric, I failed my mission in every way possible, but that may have ultimately for the best.

### End of Module Assessment

Due to my the fact that I did not complete the self-directed project, I will be assigned a final coding challenge as my assessment.

### Attendance

This module I missed more time than I ever had before. Week 5 was the worst. There were 2.5 days in which I didn't come in.
Truthfully, I was mired in feelings of shame about my progress on the self-directed project, and I was feeling emotionally
overwhelmed. I felt guilty/embarrassed to come in to class, which in retrospect prevented me from seeking out the guidance
that could have helped get started. I feel like that pattern played out during API Curious and Rales Engine, but it was amplified
and intensified during week 5, which was one of my worst weeks so far in Denver.

### Work

I feel more technically confident than I ever have at Turing. I feel like I understood the concepts better
and was able to implement the processes I was shown faster than I have been able to in the past. That said,
I managed my time worse than I had in the past, and that caused problems with every project. I realized that
my major hurdle in coding is not technical, but as Jeff espouses frequently, the projects failed because of
human reasons. I think in terms of feeling depressed and hopeless, I hit a low point in Module 3, and it was
tough to recover and still complete the project requirements.

On the plus side, I found that even in the most frenetic and intense coding sessions, I still thoroughly enjoy
coding and am able to pick up new skills more quickly. So as my confidence in my coding increased, my confidence
in myself diminished.

I need to be better about asking for help when I get into that type of negative cycle.

### Projects

I was not satisifed with any project except for the Pivot. But even the Pivot required one all-night coding session with Mike Reeves,
about whom I cannot speak more highly in terms of his dedication and work during the project.

#### (Project Name)

Imagine Photography

* [GitHub URL](http://github.com/mrjaimisra/the_pivot)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/lesson_plans/blob/master/ruby_03-professional_rails_applications/the_pivot.markdown)

Groups inherited a code base for an online store, and need modify the code for a new purpose. In our case, we inherited a meals-on-wheels style restaurant, which we need to transform into a website selling photography.

Completion: Team completed all the user stories and requirements set by the client.
Organization: Team used a project management tool and updated their progress in real-time.
Test-Driven Development: Coverage was good, showed understanding at all levels.
Code Quality: Code was better factored than most, controllers were mostly skinny, wouldn't call it "Exceptional" though.
User Experience: Project exhibits a production-ready and polished UX.

Completion: 3
Organization: 4
Test-Driven Development: 4
Code Quality: 3.5
User Experience: 4

## Team

Tyler, Jai, Mike, Michael

#### (Project Name)

GhostCloud

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/mrjaimisra/apicurious_scloud)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/lesson_plans/blob/master/ruby_03-professional_rails_applications/apicurious.md#technical-expectations)

The Apicurious individual mini-project taught us how to consume APIs by exposing us to a popular web application's API
and asking us to replicate the application using its own API.
I chose to take a risk and implemented SoundCloud's API, which was not one of the suggested choices.
Simply getting OAuth to work was a pain, so I couldn't test, and I was a bit crunched for time,
but after the project was the first time I felt like I could replicate something beautiful that was written with code,
which was the most rewarding moment of the module for me (despite the two failing scores).

Completion: Developer delivered all planned features plus 2 extensions.
Organization: Developer used a project management tool and updated their progress in real-time.
Test-Driven Development: Project does not have 70% test coverage.
Code Quality: Project demonstrates some gaps in code quality and/or application of MVC principles.
User Experience: The application is a logical and easy to use implementation of the target application.

Completion: 4
Organization: 4
Test-Driven Development: 1
Code Quality: 2
User Experience: 4

#### (Project Name)

Rales Engine

* [GitHub](http://www.github.com/mrjaimisra/rails_engine)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/ruby-submissions/blob/master/1505/09_rales_engine.markdown)

Completion: Project completes most requirements but fails 10 to 6 spec harness tests.
Test-Driven Development: Project demonstrates high test coverage (>90%) and tests at the controller and unit levels.
Code Quality: Project demonstrates some gaps in code quality and/or application of MVC principles.
API Design: Project uses strong and consistent data formats throughout, while relying mostly on standard Rails JSON features.
Queries: Project makes good use of ActiveRecord, but drops to ruby enumerables for some query methods.

Completion: 2
Test-Driven Development: 4
Code Quality: 2
API Design: 3
Queries: 3

#### (Project Name)

ArtSup

* [GitHub](http://github.com/mrjaimisra/artsup)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/lesson_plans/blob/master/ruby_03-professional_rails_applications/self_directed_project.md)

Completion: Developer completed most of the user stories and requirements set by the client.
Organization: Developer used a project management tool and updated their progress in real-time.
Test-Driven Development: Project lacks sufficient testing (under 85% coverage).
Code Quality: Project demonstrates solid code quality and MVC principles.
User Experience: Project exhibits some gaps in the UX.
Performance: Skylight Not installed.

Completion: 2
Organization: 4
Test-Driven Development: 1
Code Quality:* 3
User Experience: 2
Performance: ...

## Community

Despite my own insecurities, there was a shift during Module3 in how I looked at myself in relation to the community.
I really tried to become more of a leader in how I related to the younger cohorts, and I feel like the greatest benefit
I can provide to the people I interact with is making the experience of problem-solving seem fun and manageable.

### Giving Feedback

Tyler - I paired with Tyler on back-end problem solving more than anyone else during the Pivot, and I was always impressed at how,
once he was able to understand a certain portion of the code base (we inherited the original code I worked on), he was able to
quickly intuit and work through the process of debugging and building out new features. His ability to absorb code and then
think in that code environment is definitely a strength.

Mike - I had been hoping I would be able to work on a project with Mike Reeves, to be able to pick his brain, observe his process,
and learn some new techniques from his years of experience as a developer. In every way, working with Mike exceeded my expectations
but the most impressive thing about Mike is how much he cares about his team mates, and his conviction that we should have a
showpiece project for employers. I learned a ton from Mike during an overnight pairing session at Turing that ended at 5am,
where we combed over the app's features and made sure it deployed properly. Even after all that effort,
Mike spent a weekend after the evaluation debugging the app, and submitted pull requests on all of the
bugs we discovered during the evaluation and demo. I came out of the project feeling grateful for his hard work and impressed at
what we accomplished because of it.

Michael - Michael immediately impressed me on the day we were assigned the project, because he went into Sketch and designed
all of the views beautifully. His skill in visualizing how a website should look and feel is a tremendous asset that,
should he continue to develop his sense of design, will probably make him an invaluable asset to any team. I paired with Michael
early on in the project and we were able to accomplish an immense amount of the initial work. Michael is a very enjoyable person to
pair with, and I hope his confidence in his abilities continues to grow.

### Being a Community Member

The first time I felt like I made a difference in the community was after the conversation Jeff had with us about how the culture of
our cohort made the two female members uncomfortable. After the group conversation, I went and talked with Lovisa and Marla to better
understand their perspective. Penney from 1508/Mod1 was sitting with us, and she was distraught over how to begin working on Chisel
(she had no prior experience in HTML). I sat with her for a while and tried to calm her down and help her approach a small piece of the project.
A few other students did the same, and each of us gave our perspective on the experience of being in Module 1 and dealing with the Turing stress for the first time.

After that day, Josh Cheek sent me this message:

'Appreciating you, my friend.
Here's an end of week survey comment from Penny:
"Because of that the best part of the week involved people trying to help build me back up.
Lovisa, Jai, and Marla were there when I was really falling apart and spent over an hour talking me through it
and telling me why and how everything was gonna be okay."'

The second time I felt I made an impact was when Ryan from Module 1 (1508) asked me to pair during lunch.
I was working on a project and rushing to finish, but I am glad I took the time to talk to Ryan,
because when I sat down with him I realized he really wanted my perspective on how to think about problem-solving,
which is a subject I really enjoy talking about.

After that day, I began to actively seek out more situations in which I could help students solve their problems,
and by the end of the Module I experienced some students seeking me out for help and questions with their projects,
which was definitely a new experience at Turing.
I think the best part of pairing with me is the fact that I try to make the experience
as enjoyable and fun as possible, and celebrate as much as possible, even the little victories.

### Playing a Part

I wish I had been able to work on one of the community projects that I discussed with different students.
The most promising one of these project is the @Channel podcast that Lovisa has been attempting to organize.
It would be great to interview instructors, students, mentors, guests, and other members of the Turing community,
so that prospective students could get a clearer idea of what becoming a web application developer entails.

I brought a bunch of audio to this portfolio review, so I hope I can find a time to seriously set up and record.

## Review

### Notes

* Wanted to try to be a little more disciplined. Didn't really accomplish this.
* When initially getting a project you see the whole project and then get a little intimidated and overwhelmed.
* Staying in the workspace, maybe pairing and just feeling engaged could help. Feel like being here is helpful.
* Found once he dug in and started biting off small pieces and working throught things he really started enjoying things again.
* It takes a good attitude to work well in groups and thought he did that well.
* Your work can be uneven. You can work intensly and very well, but sometimes your intensity is low gets in your way.
* A great member in the community. Has a great attitude and does well bringing joy wherever you are.
* One of the best at helping others. When pairing he does so well at keeping others in it.


## Reassessment

3 - Features
3 - User Interface
3 - Testing
3 - Rails Style
3 - Ruby Style


### Outcome

PASS
