# (Sage Vogt) - (M1) Portfolio
#### What was your biggest achievement of the module?

###### My wheel of jeopardy performance was pretty outstanding, if I do say so myself. I was happy that I was able to answer some interview questions under a bit of pressure, actually. One thing I have been worried about is my capacity to freeze under certain circumstances. I was also very satisfied with my take away on backend architecture by the end of the mod. 

#### What provided you with the most struggle? What did you learn from that struggle?

###### Pushing through until the end. The content itself was not as difficult as just engaging myself. Returning to jquery was difficult at first, but I found that the docs will always be there to back me up and guide me through content I can bring to memory immediately. It was also a lot easier to read documentation with knowledge of the fundementals and terminology. CSS was difficult to return to as well. I don't really like it much, but it was encouraging to know that I can still utilize the box models to make sites look good. 

#### What have you done this inning that sets you apart from your peers?

###### My personal project was the closest thing to a real application that I've built so far and I believe that it afforded me experience that not many others in our class were lucky to have. I learned a lot about the reality in developing something with a pre defined purpose, and what it means to work with backend developers. Expectation vs reality. My interaction with a more professional style backend development process was fascinating because I had not realized, prior to this, the real potential for backend data management when it's developed in tandem with the front end. I think this process has improved my understanding of the backend, which will enable me to work closely to both team in a professional workplace.   

#### How did your Mod 4 experience with this part of the stack (e.g. front-end technologies for BE students/back-end technologies for FE students) impact what you wanted to be doing after Turing? How did it reframe what you learned in previous modules?

###### Since I set out on my developer journey I've had a desire to place myself in a small team, hopefully at a startup, for developing. Equiping myself with backend technologies will hopefully assist that goal. Being able to wear more than one hat on a small team seems to be an important factor in programming at a startup. 

#### What is the most important skill or lesson that you will take from Turing into your next job?

###### Confidence in learning capability! Learning a new technology was so overwhelming when i first came to Turing. "ANOTHER ONE? WE JUST LEARNED NEW TECH" was my thought at first. But after I had learned a few technologies and been through the process, I became excited by the prospect of learning something that I knew would make my life easier in the future. I was stoked to say the least about learning React. More than any other essential skill we learned at Turing, the learning process is what I am most excited about taking away because I know it will be valuable in a workplace when we need to pick up the innevitable new tech that comes along. 

#### List your cut-off date for having a full-time position
###### I'll be getting a job. 

#### List monthly, weekly, and daily goals
###### Work on this contract project for a couple hours and then job hunt the rest. 

#### Create "daily_practice" repo and describe to instructor(s) what you plan to practice
###### It's on my iCalendar, I'll show it at my portfolio defense. 
###### I will practice javascript fundamentals alot. JS excorcisms everyday.

#### List 3 people you will reach out to. Describe to instructor(s) why you'll reach out, when you'll email them by, what you hope to talk about, and what follow-up will look like
###### * Michael Goff - Lead dev i'm corresponding with at a start up in seattle.
###### * Rich Barton - He has pointed me in the direction of non-profit I can do some work for. If I do good work for that NP I would get a foot in a very, very good door to have a foot in. 
###### * Ryan Desmond - Head of CN whom I worked with on my capstone. He is interested in contracting me out for continuing work. Not sure how interested I am...

#### List 3 meetups you'll attend and describe to instructor(s) why you'll attend them
###### * React JS. - Because I like React. 
###### * Ethereum Denver - Because I like Ethereum.
###### * Denver Devs Happy Hour - Because I like Denver. 

#### List the job search tracking system you're using and describe to instructor(s) why you're using it/how it will help you.
###### Job Tracker

#### List 2-3 areas you'd like to continue to improve on for interviewing and outline concrete action steps on how you will improve those skills to describe to instructor(s)

###### I would like to focus on white-boarding and technical challenges. I think I do well at culture interviews, but I need to practice my technical interviews and whiteboarding skills by using Codewars and Exercisms. 

#### Turing portfolio is updated with 3 projects
###### Yes.

#### Summary of how you've updated your LinkedIn profile
###### I've detailed a number of different skills on my profile. I've connected with many peers and endorsed them on LinkedIn as well. 

#### List additional area you'll focus on in your job search and describe why to instructor(s)
###### I'll be keeping my eyes out for full stack positions with a focus on the front end. This is mostly my ideal positions. I also may begin to look into angular because I'm looking at a position right now at a company which is hoping to pivot from angular to react. 

#### List 1-2 people you'll check in with during job search.
###### David Whitaker, Daniela Carey fersure.  

## #2: Supporting Cohortmates in Job Search
#### List 1-2 people from PD Peer Group who you will continue to check in with during the first 30 days post-graduation. Describe your plans for these check-ins to your instructor(s)

###### Eric Mellow and Krista. I'd just like to talk about interviews, questions they've been asked, where they've found successs and what not. 

#### Describe one area of the job search that you feel particularly skilled in to help your cohortmates with and how you will do that with your instructor(s)
###### Networking 










