Turing has, surprisingly, been one of the most formative experiences in my life.  Coming from the world of Montessori education where we treat the 'whole' child (intellectual, emotional, and spiritual), I mistakenly thought I would leave behind any trace of the less solid sciences and root myself firmly in logic and whatever other concrete things coding entailed.  And for the first few mods, I did.  Saying I had a lot to learn would be an understatement.  Computer use had been minimal in my previous career and not only did I need to learn the basics of how to use my new machine, I was also apparently supposed to learn how to program apps.  

Front end programming was a lovely introduction to coding in general.  You get the added feedback of a (sometimes) beautiful user interface to keep you motivated when things are not going right.  I enjoyed manipulating the DOM and learning new technologies such as React and Redux.  And given that we spent 3 months learning this, I assumed that I would continue on that trajectory of front end engineering.  In fact, at the Try Coding I attended, there was a lovely young woman on the panel who was sure she was going to be a 'fullstack engineer'.  Secretly I thought it was a little far-fetched that she would aim for that goal after only 7 months of coding school.  Yes, perhaps eventually she would work up to be a fullstack engineer, but surely you can't know everything about both sides of engineering.  I followed her trajectory via Slack and sure enough, she landed a 'fullstack' title for her first job.  I was pleased for her, but thought I would never have the skills, or even aspire to have that title.  Then I got to mod 4.

Throughout my career at Turing, I've had a lot of 'deep' questions.  Things like 'who is the console log?' frequently present themselves as mysteries of the coding universe. These mostly stem from my lack of understanding of how computers and internet work.  Mod 4 took a lot of that mystery away so I no longer have to embarrass myself in front of other programmers.  There is a back end!  That is where ALL of the information is stored!  This information, along with understanding the http request/response cycle made all of my previous work at Turing make sense. 

In fact, I love building databases.  A lot.  Node and Express with knex has been one of the more fun (and least painful) learning experiences of my life.  And now I know how to serve things up to my front end!  And I want to be a fullstack engineer so that I can know ALL of the things about how all the pieces of an app interact.    

As with all the other mods, mod 4 did not pass without a struggle.  My biggest hurdle I overcame was the open source project.  Given my disposition and background, I comfortably sat with the knowledge that I might very well be the most outwardly nice person in the room.  And I thought nice just oozed out of me.  Not so.  Tone is very important when using the internet to communicate.  There are no visual cues or body language that can be read over a commit message to make the meaning more explicit.  Long story short, there were massive issues with the PR due to my own negligence of not reading the ReadMe and I very brusquely suggested that it was not my fault and that the problem was on their side.  I was able to remedy the situation with a personal apology and a clean PR, but I still feel quite a bit of shame about how I initially handled the situation.  

As Turing draws to a close, I not only take the coding skills I acquired here, but also some very valuable knowledge about the tech community and the world outside of the preschool bubble I had previously lived in.  That doesn't mean I'm not bringing a little preschool to tech - I think that is one of my biggest strengths.  My love of learning will obviously serve me well, but my desire to include, and be kind, to everyone are the most important things I can bring to the tech community as a developer.


[30 day plan](https://calendar.google.com/calendar?cid=bWFyaWthLnJvc3NAZ21haWwuY29t)
