# Jeff Duke - M3 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis
For this module I set out to broaden my skills and knowledge of different frameworks.  I also set out to keep improving my design techniques and implementation.  I'm feeling much more confident about being able to create a solid front end design to an app and being able to implement a comp design quickly and effectively.  I feel much stronger in the usage of different frameworks like React and Ember as well as tools like Redux.  I feel confident about knowing the advantages and disadvantages of the different technologies we've worked with and why one might be a better choice over another for a given project.

## Rubric Scores

* **A: End-of-Module Assessment**: 3
* **B: Individual Work & Projects**: 3
* **C: Group Work & Projects**: 3
* **D: Professional Skills**: 3
* **E: Feedback & Community Participation**: 4

-----------------------

## A: End of Module Assessment

All 3's


## B: Individual Work & Projects

The focus this mod was on our self-directed projects.  For mine, I tackled a hardware project.  I used a microcontroller, some LEDs, an environment sensor, a solenoid valve and some misc electronics parts to make a system that can automate watering my garden for me.  I made a cloud-based stats/monitoring page to get chart data from the sensors.  I also setup a local-controls page that can be accessed from the same wifi as the system.  This local page gives real-time data from the sensors and allows for manual watering control.

#### Radicchio (Self Directed)

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/Jeff-Duke/radicchio)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/self-directed-project.html)

An automated water gardening system.  This project utilizes:

Tessel-2 Microcontroller
Johnny-Five
Express
Socket.io
Phant/Sparkfun Data Logging
React
jQuery Ajax
Got
JustGage
ChartJS/React-ChartJS

Good use of different technologies, really cool to be able to control the device remotely using socket.io.  Some opportunities to refactor but good job keeping the payload small and the load-times fast.  

Pass

## C: Group Work & Projects

### Projects

For group projects this mod we did an Ember project called RemEmber and made a Weather App in React/Redux.

#### RemEmber

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/turingschool-projects/1606-remember-1)
* No original assignment - this was given to us as a repo with open issues/user stories

Build a reminder app using Ember based on open issues and user stories.  A user story cannot be closed until an instructor accepts the PR.  All PR's must have tests covering them.

Merged PRs for 9-10 user stories.  Feedback was generally good from the instructors.  We had to burn down our code in a couple spots and rebuild it in a better way to make things easier on ourselves in the future.  Overall this was one of my favorite projects so far.  I really liked working in Ember and I really enjoyed the user-story/PR workflow process.  It gave us a glimpse as to what it will be like to use Github workflow in the real world.  

Jeff, this project went smooth as silk.  On top of your obvious talents as a programmer, you are incredibly patient, a great listener, and very good at explaining what you are thinking.  That makes working with you delightful.  No constructive feedback for you either!  I would love to work with you again in the future.

#### React/Redux Weather App

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/mjvalade/weather-forecast)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/weather-forecast.html)

In this project you’ll be building a react/redux weather app that allows you to see different forecast information for a given city, and set favorite cities to pin to the home page.

Spec - 4
Redux - 4
Routes - 4
JS - 3
Test - 3
Workflow - 3

##### Feedback from MaryJane:
It was nice to work with you again on the weather app. This project forced us to learn a lot of things all at once between redux, API calls, routing, etc. Once you figured out how to make redux work I appreciated that you tried to explain it to us rather than just breaking apart the project to work on our own elements. Taking redux on your shoulders when we were struggling helped Pete and I work on the rest of the project.

##### Feedback from Peter: 
Jeff, I really enjoyed working together on the weather app. I think you do a great job at talking through problems while pairing. I also appreciated your flexibility when it came to deciding when to work. Your patience and communication skills make you a pleasure to work with.

## D: Professional Skills

### Gear Up
#### Vote Your Conscience

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/vote_your_conscience.markdown)

I took away that we all come from different backgrounds and have different topics that are important to us.  More than anything it is important to look at a whole candidate and find someone who is going to meet the most of what's important to you.  I dove into the To Vote or not to Vote topic and found it interesting to look at how low the turnout of voters is in America.  Everyone seems to want change but doesn't think they can exact change.  I continue to think about ways I can make a difference in the community and to see in what ways I might be able to leverage technology to make a difference.

#### Introversion and Extroversion on Teams

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/introversion.markdown)

It was good to see Turing address the strengths of introverts and how we can be more successful.  It's been good to push myself to be more outgoing and more outward thinking for the sake of learning to collaborate.  It's also good to see Turing looking at how we introverts can also be very valuable.  I also really liked that we had this GearUp with our cohort and learned how we can better work together.

#### Resilience

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/resilience.markdown)

I liked the idea of this gearup but didn't appreciate the approach.  It mostly felt like soemthing that was put in place to eat up time.  While it's valuable to be a resilient person and to try not to let things overwhelm you, neither article addressed any tactics for accomplishing that.  There wasn't much to take away from this.


### Professional Development Workshops

##### Flower Exercise
* Flower exercise is included in this PR as a PDF.

[Alumni Portfolio](https://www.turing.io/alumni/jeff-duke)

#### Job Search Strategy

* Keep up with BuiltInColorado Site
* Seek out new companies where available
* Attend relevant meetups
* Have met with someone linked through Twitter, led to an offer for some contract work on an IoT project.
* Met with Danny from Pana to do a first interview.  Will meet for some pair coding soon.
* Finished editing my Resume and working on finishing up my portfolio.
* Joined TechFriends and Denver Devs slack channels to look at job postings.  
* Plan to start applying to 1-2 jobs a week from BuiltInColorado
* Also plan to send a few e-mails a week to meet folks for coffee. 


### Personal Project Notes:
#### Raddichio
Trying to solve the problem of having to water a small garden
Project Problems:
How to make the system withstand environment?
Pelican case
Shielded/Outdoor rated LV wire
3d-print cover for surface level sensors
How to power the system?
Battery Pack
Solar Cells
MicroController at garden, pi/server indoors - less power but need a wifi controller
How to receive and store the data?
RaspPi running Linux and Node?
Some kind of DB that regularly polls or receives data from the watering system
Configure API(s) on the server to deliver information to remote client/dashboard page
How to control the system remotely?
Figure out 2-way communication from server to system
Server should establish communication with sensor system and start running app on boot
Server should be able to pass commands to watering system to manually start or stop watering process

Sad Path Problems:
failed sensors
valve gets stuck open
soil gets too dry
communication lost between server and devices

Thoughts on Hardware Setup
Arduino or Tessel board reading from soil moisture sensors and water level sensor(s)
Connect city water from hose to  water valve solenoid for water supply
Shut off when water hits water-level sensor(s)
Other Sensors for enviro data 
Ambient Light?
Climate - Temp, Humidity etc

Nice to haves:
LCD readout on weather system
LED battery indicator on system
Cloud access to system and data
Rain Barrel Connection/sensor
Detects if water in Rain Barrel and uses that before city water
water flow sensor that checks how much water you’ve used in a given period of time

Do I even need a board or could/should this all be done on a Raspberry Pi?

Technologies
Node.js
NW.js
Express
Raspi-IO
React for dashboard

## E: Feedback and Community Participation

### Giving Feedback

#### Feedback to David for RemEmber

David, it was awesome working with you on our Ember project.  It was one my favorite projects so far, both because of the project structure and also how we worked together.  I thought we did an awesome job of popping back and forth to make commits and solve problems while still working together to resolve user issues and get the code pushed up.  I thought we did a great job of pairing and dividing/conquering.  I don't really have any constructive feedback, I thought we both did a good job and the project ran really smoothly.  Look forward to working with you again.

#### Feedback to Pete for Weather App

Pete, it was great working with you and MaryJane on our weather app.  I appreciate you wanting to get together and stay late to work our way through all the new concepts.  I thought we did a good job of working our way through Redux and API calls, and then did a great job of breaking apart to all work on different pieces to get a solid app out the door by the deadline.  Look forward to working with you on future projects.

#### Feedback to MaryJane for Weather App

MaryJane, I really enjoyed working with you and Pete on the Weather app project.  I thought we did a good job working through it together and I was really happy with how it turned out.  I think we did a good job working together to muddle our way through all the new concepts and then did an awesome job of working independantly on several pieces at once to get a solid app out the door by the deadline.  I hope we get to work together again on another project!

### Being a Community Member

* Paired with 1608 students as requested in the pairing channel.
* Helped Brett host a Friday Spike session on codewars for new students.
* Hosted a Friday Spike session on building circuits.
* TA'd for a Try Turing weekend

### Playing a Part

* Demo'd a project for Turing Demo night
* Working on starting a hardware hacking Posse for next Module
* Opened 4 PRs against an open source project.  3 have been merged and I'm working on the 4th.

------------------

## Final Review

### Notes

( Leave blanks for reviewers )

### Outcome

( Leave blanks for reviewers )
