# Andrew Jeffery - M1 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

What did you set out to accomplish this module? Were you successful?
I set out to understand programming logic and concepts using ruby.  I do feel successful in this regard and am surprised at how comfortable I feel tackling logic problems in ruby.  There is definitely still a lot to be learned, although I feel that in addition to learning a lot specifically about ruby, we have been forced to be resourceful and efficient looker uppers and reacher outers when problems are occurred.  The areas that I would like to delve into more include recursion, regular expressions, file I/O, ERB templates, and reaching out to apis.  Another goal of mine was to make friends and acquaintances within Turing, and the tech industry in general, and get a feel for the various fields that could be relevant to my interests and past experience.  I have been less successful in this regard (naturally as the programming piece is the focus for now) although have slowly been building a network of people and resources to begin learning more.  One of the questions I have is how many Turing graduates work in a programming-related job outside of web development and what are their experiences like?

What did you struggle most with this module? What did you learn from that struggle?
I think I have struggled most with applying OOP programming concepts to practical scenarios such as those in our projects.  Although I have improved at this, I would usually find myself going down a particular path that would have to be significantly altered by a later iteration of a project.  One of my main difficulties with this was understanding SRP, and in what context it should be applied.  I have a tendency to be tunnel visioned at times, only seeing the need of a particular function from the particular spec provided.  HTTP was a great example of this.  I spent a day rearranging and restructuring my classes, making no progress on the iterations themselves (which was particularly difficult for me), but being very thankful for it down the road.  From this I learned that the algorithmic and logic intensive components of programming are really only half the battle, if that.  The design and structuring of the classes and how they interact is one, subjective, and two, perhaps the most important aspect of making a programming easy to understand for others, and for future necessary changes.  

## Projects

What were your favorite projects this module? Least favorite? Why?
My favorite project was probably JungleBeat.  The reason I enjoyed this project was one, because it was a fun application, and two because there was a specific "ah-hah" moment that kind of elucidated the logic concept behind the entire data structure.  When first given the project it very much felt overwhelming, and I specifically remember immediately jumping into ruby and trying to code, not having thought too much about it.  I was working next to Matt, and we both had the same perplexed look on our face.  We were both sharing relevant ideas but couldn't implement them in ruby.  So our next step was to shut the computers and psuedo-code our thoughts and how we think append could be tackled.  This helped us both develop the logic that we successfully implemented later that evening.  This helped me realize how important psuedo-coding is to the design process, and helped me feel comfortable when given future, seemingly impossible, problems to tackle.  My least favorite project was probably HTTP.  I enjoyed learning about the general functions of a server and how it could be implemented, although definitely struggled most with this project.  I didn't think it was particularly algorithmic or logic intensive, which I think I gravitate to, but more of an exercise in breaking down an application into logical classes that could be easily understood by others.   

What did you learn from your independent projects?
First, I learned about how to plan and set realistic objectives for tacking a coding challenge within a relatively short deadline.  At first, this was hard, not knowing what would be more difficult or easy.  Over the course of module 1, and especially in the current project BT, I think I have become better at identifying what the time consuming aspects of a project are.  I learned about the importance of fully understanding the application/problem at hand before beginning to code and design a solution.  For at least one of the projects, I began coding based only on the first iteration, which caused me to have to restructure only a day or so later - costing me time that could have been saved up front.  Lastly, I have learned about my preferred work process and environment.  I like to be in the 'zone', if you will, and would often retreat to a phone booth to limit distractions.  I would then take regular pomodoro breaks, some twice as long as recommended, because I inevitably would start discussing the problem at hand with a fellow student.  I then would retreat back in my focus 'cave'.  I really like this pattern, work on your own for 25-30 mins, take a 10 min break and discuss with others, repeat.  Sometimes the individual work sessions would be longer for more complex tasks.  

What did you learn from your paired projects?
During my paired projects I learned about the importance of DTR and setting expectations.  Although easy to overlook, I think this is crucial for establishing a good team work ethic while ensuring division of responsibility and clear communication.  I learned about GITTTTTTTTT.  It took me a while but I finally feel like I have a decent understanding of DVCS and their power for allowing multiple people to contribute to one project.  I also learned about meshing personalities and settling conflicts (minor conflicts).  Coding approaches are subjective, and there will inevitably be conflicts if two people are tackling the same issue.  I think its important to allow each person to share their perspectives, try some things out, and then make a team unanimous decision about how to move forward.  I know this will not always be the scenario as we will be working under more experienced developers, but this strategy has been successful thus far.  Having an open-mind as well as being willing to try things your not comfortable with are important in this regard.  

## Community

What was your favorite Gear Up? Least favorite? Why?
I think my favorite gear up session was the community/mod-4 led gear up session last week.  It was my favorite because of its setup, where it encouraged a class dialogue about current tech/political topics.  I really enjoyed hearing other peoples perspectives, hearing other people respond to those perspectives, and having a venue to contribute myself.  The session also encouraged us to think critically about our social media use and how it could affect our political orientations, which I really enjoyed.  Generally speaking I don't think there are enough venues for open discourse in a medium size group and think this is exactly the thing necessary to help solve political divisiveness.  I hope to foster a similar approach when I'm in mod 4 leading a gear up.

That said, I think this was also my least favorite gear up session because it assumed a lot about peoples view on one particular topic, net neutrality.  It was presented a video on the subject that I don't think did justice to both sides of the issue - even though I agree with the side presented.  In general, I think it is important to present both sides of an issue in their entirety, and if you tend to one side, it is that much more important to want to learn the other side and to want to convince yourself that the other side is right.  Only then do I believe you can engage in truly productive conversations with other people, conversations that are absolutely necessary if actual change is to be made, not partisan change.  In that spirit, I think the assumption that net neutrality is inherently good and that large corporations are inherently bad is detrimental to the momentum of the issue/cause itself.   

How did you contribute to the Turing community this module?
I like to believe I contributed to the Turing community both within and outside of my module.  Within my module I sought help from other students and also tried to help other students when asked.  I like to think I presented a mentality of "we are all in this together", and I am happy to help any time and hope the attitude is reciprocated.  I also tried to actively offer help to students if they were struggling as this has been done to me as well.  Outside of the module I introduced myself to many other students and feel very comfortable in the school environment overall.  On a number of occasions I sought help from upper mod students, hopefully helping them to also stay fresh on ruby that they may have not seen in a while.  All of the upper back-end modules were extremely approachable and encouraged reaching out, which I hope to do as well when I reach module 2 and above.  

What would you like to do to contribute next module?
As stated above I hope to foster the same open relationships that upper mod students have extended toward us.  Selfishly, this helps us stay fresh on ruby, but more importantly it pays it forward and helps to contribute to the other overall success of students.  I would also like to be involved in contributing more to posse events and outreach next module.  I have a few friends in the tech industry that would love to come to a Q/A panel or add to the extensive Turing mentor network.  I would also like to sign up for a lightning talk and present interesting topics/ideas to the student body as a whole.   

## Self-Assessment Scores

Fill in how you would grade yourself from 1-4 in the following categories this module.

| Category                     | Score |
| -----------------------------| ----- |
| **Individual Projects**      |   3   |
| **Group Projects**           |   3   |
| **Professional Development** |   3   |
| **Community**                |   3   |
| **Pentathlon**               |   3   |
