# Calaway - M4 Portfolio

## Rubric Scores

* A: End-of-Module Assessment: 4
* B: Individual Work & Projects: 3
* C: Group Work & Projects: 4
* D: Professional Skills: 3
* E: Feedback & Community Participation: 3

-----------------------

## A: End of Module Assessment

Assessor: Andrew

###### Notes:
* Missing Link title validation *(This was a misinterpretation of the spec and has since been corrected.)*

###### 1. Satisfactory Progress
* __3__: Developer completes sections 1 through 5 minor bugs and no missing functionality.

###### 2. Ruby & Rails Style & API
* __4__: Developer is able to craft Rails features that follow the principles of MVC, push business logic down the stack, and skillfully utilizes ActiveRecord to model application state. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code is doing.

###### 3. Javascript Syntax & Style
* __3__: Developer writes solid Javascript code using common patterns and idioms. Code is organized appropriately within objects and functions. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code is doing.

###### 4. Testing
* __4__: Developer excels at taking small steps and using the tests for *both* design and verification. Developer uses integration tests, controller tests, and model tests where appropriate.

###### 5. User Interface
* __3__: The application has many strong pages/interactions, but a few holes in lesser-used functionality

###### 6. Workflow
* __3__: The developer makes a series of small, atomic commits that document the evolution of their application. There are no formatting issues in the code base.

## B: Capstone Project: Census

* [Census GitHub](https://github.com/bcgoss/census)
* [Census Production](https://turing-census.herokuapp.com)
* [Census OmniAuth Gem GitHub](https://github.com/bcgoss/omniauth-census)
* [Yearbook GitHub](https://github.com/j-sm-n/yearbook)
* [Yearbook Production](https://turingyearbook.herokuapp.com/)
* [Original Assignment](http://backend.turing.io/module4/projects_overview)

Census serves as a central location for identity management across the Turing community. Once an applicant is admitted they are a member of census. It tracks their essential identifying information (name, email, phone) but also online identity (Twitter, LinkedIn, et cetera). Students are members of a cohort. Most importantly, Census is an OAuth provider allowing the other internal apps to use it as an identity platform.


#### Project Feedback to Calaway
###### From Jesse:

###### From Jasmin:
The capstone project was the first time I got the opportunity to work directly with Calaway on a project, and I'm very fortunate that I did! Not only is he one of the hardest and committed workers in our cohort, he's extremely knowledgable and takes the time to fully understand why something works the way it does.

I really enjoyed pairing with him on Yearbook and when we first tackled configuration for sending emails on production with Census. While we paired, he helped me realize that my communication is not always clearly delivered when thinking of a specific technical implementation. However, instead of showing any sign of frustration with me, he showed an unwavering sense of patience and would often walk me through my thought process so we became on the same page eventually.

On a personal level, I'm happy to call Calaway a friend of mine and I'm excited to see where life takes him as a developer and as he moves back to SLC. Beer mail buddies?

###### From Goss:
I appreciate your calm demeanor and laidback attitude. It helped keep our team in good spirits even when our workload seemed heavy.  

I struggle to think of ways you can improve but one suggestion might be to seize tasks more quickly. You were very careful to make sure you weren't taking anyone's favorite task off the tracker, but I think you could have just picked something and gone for it.  

I'm very glad we were on a team together and I can't wait to see what our next adventure will be.

#### Project feedback from Calaway
###### To Jesse:
This is the second project at Turing on which I have had the pleasure of working with Jesse. I have many good thing to say about the experience, but my favorite aspect is how Jesse has a way of bringing the best work out of his teammates. This is not done through taking a manager role or telling anyone what to do, but by being a role model and constantly putting in his top performance.  

Overall I could not be more impressed by Jesse's work ethic as well as his ability to produce excellent code. I can see my own growth in technical skill and even more in my teamwork abilities as a direct result of working with him. I'm very happy for the opportunity to work with Jesse, and more than that, to be able to call him a friend.

###### To Jasmin:
I'm very happy to have gotten the opportunity to work with Jasmin on Census this module. She has had a well deserved reputation in our cohort for being incredibly organized and a master in project management. After working closely with her over the past 6 weeks I can confidently say that these abilities are absolutely matched by her technical, communication, and teamwork skills.  

On the non-technical side, I very much appreciate cultural ideas that Jasmin brings to the table. Anybody would know from speaking with her that she is very educated on social issues that affect us all. I believe that having someone on a development team who can speak so eloquently about such things will make your product better for the end user by making software while keeping in mind the diverse range of people who will be using it.  

Overall, Jasmin has been an indispensable part of this project. I can say that I have found myself a better developer for having worked with her, and more than that I am happy to be able to call her a friend.

###### To Goss:
Working with Goss on Census this module has been an enlightening and enjoyable experience. He seems to have a well thought out and methodical approach to solving problems. I think he has done an excellent job of parlaying the his past experience in hard sciences into excellent software development practices, such as making and tracking hypotheses when working to eliminate a bug from the code base.  

I did give him one minor point of constructive criticism toward the middle of this project, which was to try to emphasize a peer-to-peer tone when explaining concepts to teammates as it tends to make them more receptive. I highly respect how responsive he was to that feedback and I have already noticed a difference in the past few weeks.  

All in all, I appreciate having the opportunity to work with Goss. He's an excellent software developer and has become and awesome friend.

## Open Source contribution
* [Our code contribution](https://github.com/publiclab/plots2/pull/1179)
 * Our PR has been merged!!!
* [Reproduce and confirm or contradict bug report](https://github.com/publiclab/plots2/issues/1166)
* [Contribution to documentation](https://github.com/publiclab/plots2/pull/1179/commits/ff955feab58dacb02a533136b4d5aff3340e28ec)

## D: Professional Skills
Professional development at Turing is intended to prepare us for entering the workforce in our new careers as Software Developers.

### Gear Up
#### Microaggressions

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/microaggressions_original.markdown)

When I heard about this gear up session I was very interested, primarily because I did not know what microaggressions means, but knew that it is a common buzzword recently. The most important thing I gained from this is a good definition of what microaggressions are. I also learned that many are committed by accident, with no ill will or even when trying to deliver a complement. Armed with this knowledge I can be sure to not commit any such injustices in future interactions with people.

#### Journey Mapping

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/journey-mapping.markdown)

This session was a good exercise in putting yourself in someone else's shoes during a stressful endeavor. It was valuable to map out frustrations along the journey of such an experience that we had gone through. However, I feel it missed a good opportunity to connect the lesson more concretely to software development and how we can be a part of the solution to these types of problems.

#### Grit

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/grit.markdown)

I had been looking forward to this Gear Up. I knew from hearing Jeff on a podcast before I applied at Turing that grit was one of the determining factors for success in students here. I had seen the TED Talk already and have read some of Duckworth's writings. I really appreciated the dissenting article that was included. It helped to open up the discussion that followed.

### Professional Development Workshops
#### Flower Exercise Follow-Up

* [Workshop URL](https://github.com/turingschool/professional_skills/blob/master/module_four/flower_exercise_follow_up.md)

###### My top three priorities in my first dev job:
* First is location: Salt Lake City. I'll be looking primarily there for at least the next year and a half to two years. After that I'm open to wherever this exciting new career may take me.
* Second is to work for a company that prioritizes some form of mentorship or continued education on the job. I want to consider Turing only the beginning of this education and intend to keep building my skills for many years into the future.
* Third would be some combination of environment and culture. Everyone is more productive at a place that they enjoy spending time at.

###### Perceived barriers:
* Two of my perceived barriers go hand in hand. They are anxiety about performance on a technical interview, and being nervous under pressure of people watching me work on a problem. The action step to overcome these is straightforward: practice, practice, practice. I've already been talking with my mentor and friends in the industry to help me practice this skill and by doing so I hope to alleviate the nervousness I'll feel in the real situation.
* One perceived barrier I have toward cold outreach in Utah is cultural, namely Mormonism. The go-to meetup in the industry seems to be going out to coffee or even out for a beer, both of which I very much enjoy. Obviously Mormons don't indulge either these, and in Utah there's a high likelihood that a person you're making a cold introduction to is of that faith. To overcome this I spoke with the cold outreach master, Jesse. Together we came to the conclusion that nobody is offended by a simple suggestion of coffee. If they don't want to meet at a coffee shop then I'll ask if they would agree to speak via Hangouts and go from there.

#### Cold Outreach
* [Gist](https://gist.github.com/calaway/5abe0f3c9c2d2781c8fa835bc869a531) (These were already accepted by Lia & Meg via email and then copied here.)

#### Blog Post

* [Workshop URL](https://github.com/turingschool/professional_skills/blob/master/module_four/writing_a_blog_post_and_peer_review.md)
* [My Blog Post](https://gist.github.com/calaway/f12c438c5478ee280bfa70007b365990)

###### My Peer Review of [David's Blog Post](https://medium.com/@kctrlv/caefd9dc0f3c#.928a0r3w9)
First of all I must say that I am very impressed with this short instructional piece. It is at once useful & informative as well as quite concise, which is a difficult balance to strike. The step by step instructions are very clear and the writing flows well and is easy to read. One example of the excellent descriptions provided is on the explanation of `function submitWord`. When looking it over it is not immediately apparent what this function is doing. David could see that the reader might be confused by it and followed it up immediately with a clear explanation.

One change you could consider making would be to break up the code fields to separate different files and terminal instructions out to their own blocks. However, I like the way it is made clear what file is being referenced by preceding each with a comment. Likewise, terminal commands are all prepended with `$` for clarity. So this feedback is simply a point of preference and not at all a problem with the way it is written.

Very well done. I hope it finds it's way to a student who is just crossing the divide between the Rails and JavaScript worlds!

###### My Peer Review of [Sonia's Blog Post](https://medium.com/@redsonia7/all-the-worlds-a-stage-until-you-have-cors-issues-4c08268f961a#.fgekc8143)

A very well put together piece of writing, indeed! This manages to be at once informative and entertaining, which is certainly a difficult balance to strike. The personal narrative through the difficulties and successes, as well as the expert literary style, make the piece highly readable. I’ve been meaning to tell you that I always appreciate and admire your vocabulary. It brings a distinguished kind of spice to conversations you’re in, while still being inviting and approachable, and I can now see that such vernacular translates well into written form as well.

I do have one minor technical suggestion. I always like when technical explanations include the path and filename of each file they’re referencing as a comment on the first line of the code snippet for increased clarity.

Very well done. I hope this finds it’s way into the hands of a student struggling with the dreaded CORS issues as we all have this module!

## The Plan
* [Gist](https://gist.github.com/calaway/5794bf003cf39994a8e690aa2f3c0113)

## E: Community Participation

I have enjoyed being able to play a bigger part in the turing community this module. I have made an effort to focus on my role as a pre-work mentor and have also enjoyed pairing with mod 1 and 2 students when our schedule allowed. In addition to this, I truly appreciate the community building that comes from Lunch Roulette. As such I have set myself a SlackBot reminder for the last two modules to reach out and start the conversation with my random group on Tuesday of every week. With such notice I have had excellent success in bringing together students from all modules and both programs to meet up and enjoy lunch.

### Being a Community Member

###### Feedback for Sonia:
One regret I thought I would be walking away from Turing with was not getting the opportunity to work on a project with Sonia. Lucky for me we were given one last chance to pair up with a classmate in the form of our first open source contribution. It is easy to see from working with Sonia that her natural intelligence coupled with her impressive education and experience have given her an excellent way of approaching and solving problems. Her excited explanations upon first understanding how the code base we were working on functions made the joy of writing code infectious. After working with her I can confidently say that her well developed soft skills—such as excellent communication and admirable drive—are in every way matched by her technical ability to write great software.

Sonia has an excellent style of teamwork, such that the cooperative effort is greater than the sum of what would be possible from the individuals separately. Related to this but on a personal note, at the end of my first week here at Turing, which was also my first week living in Colorado, I was invited to hang out with a few of the Mod 2 cohort for a bit after school. Sonia was incredibly warm and inviting and helped me instantly feel at home in what could have otherwise felt like a lonely and foreign environment. Since then I have seen this welcoming and community building behavior from her toward many other students. She is a person who can make a cohort feel like a family, and I consider myself lucky to be able to call her a friend.


###### Feedback from Sonia:
I had never had the chance to work with Calaway before the open source project, and I'm so glad I didn't leave Turing without having that opportunity. It was truly one of the most pleasant, encouraging, and fun pairing experiences I have ever had.

Calaway approaches problems with precision and patience. In our personal interactions, Calaway has always proven himself to be incredibly kind, conscientious, and mindful. These traits were also evident in our pairing interaction.

When initially confronting a problem, Calaway makes sure to explain what he is thinking, and where he is in the code. I never felt like I wasn't following, because he made himself extremely clear, and was very patient in his explanations. He also showed me a number of shortcuts that I had never used before (clicking on the path to copy in Atom? Mind-blowing!). His passion for coding really comes through when he is digging through a difficult issue, such as when we were trying to set up the virtual environment for our first attempt at open source contribution. He is persistent, but knows how to manage his time well and doesn't just aimlessly run down rabbit holes. Instead, Calaway methodically reviews each possible point of failure and tests them. His precision is truly a joy to observe. Watching Calaway solve a problem is a great way to find out if you yourself truly love coding; if you feel excitement and intrigue when working with him, the answer is probably yes!

On a personal level, I have been so honored to know and learn with Calaway. He is truly one of the kindest, most well-balanced individuals I have ever known. I aspire to be more like him in so many ways. He always seems to be the voice of reason when those around him are falling apart, and he takes a very equitable view of problems and does not lose focus of the really important issues involved. I have said this of very few people I have known throughout my journey on this planet, but I am a better person for knowing Calaway, and I honestly hope we will be friends for life.

------------------

## Final Review

### Notes

* **A: End-of-Module Assessment**:
* **B: Individual Work & Projects**:
* **C: Group Work & Projects**:
* **D: Professional Skills**:
* **E: Feedback & Community Participation**:

### Outcome

( Leave blanks for reviewers )
