# B4 Portfolio Template

## Area of Emphasis

This inning, I was mostly focused on finding a job. For me, learning Javascript was secondary to that concern. While I did still learn quite a bit about Javascript, I also accomplished my primary goal - I received three offers the week before graduation, and accepted one the week of.

## Assessment

Include your final outcome (pass/fail) and a reflection based on answering the following questions:  

**Pass**

* What was your biggest technical challenge?  
  - Dealing with Express.  
  
* What did you like the most about the challenge?
  - Getting the chance to bone up on SQL again.  
  
* How did you solve that challenge? What was your approach?
  - I pored over the Postgres docs and asked classmates about their approaches.  
  
* What did you learn?
  - `json_agg` is useful but, like many other things in SQL, confusing and misleading.  
  
## Quantified Self

Include a reflection answering the following questions:

* What was your biggest technical challenge?  
  - Learning how Javascript worked on the back end.

* How did you solve that challenge? What was your approach?  
  - Understanding the benefits of a non-opinionated framework.

* What did you like the most about the challenge?
  - We asked continually about best practices re: abstraction, file structure, etc.

* What are three technical concepts you learned during this project?
  - Organizing your app along MVC lines is usually a good way to go.
  - How to use jQuery to manipulate the DOM.
  - How manual database connections work (again).
  
* If you could change one thing about your technical approach, what would it be and why?
  - Better organization of frontend code into classes.

* What was the experience like working with a pair while learning something new?
  - We're always learning something new at Turing, so it was like every other pairing!

## Capstone Project

Include a reflection answering the following questions:

* What was your biggest technical challenge?
  - Understanding React well enough to use it on the front end.

* How did you solve that challenge? What was your approach?
  - I reviewed the classwork we did surrounding it and also read through the official React tutorial.
  
* What did you like the most about the challenge?
  - Not using jQuery to update the DOM.

* What are three technical concepts you learned during this project?
  - How MQTT works and how to use the Ruby MQTT library.
  - Why certain actions block the Rails process and how to handle more than one thread.
  - How React works.

## Feedback

**What's one piece of meaningful feedback you received during B4?** What have you done or going to do regarding this feedback?  

Code organization is important when showing others your app (feedback on QS frontend). Thus, I tried to organize my React code in a way that made more sense.

## Gear Up

**Write a reflection about the process of planning/revising a Gear Up session and facilitating the session.** Did you enjoy the experience? What was challenging? What was most rewarding?  

Reflection is [here](https://medium.com/@katiekeel/on-cold-outreach-and-gearing-up-66d24649f717).

## Community Involvement

**How else did you give back to the community this inning?** Why do you think this is a required part of the Turing experience?

I've watered the plants on top of the fridges in the lunchroom since mod 2! It's part of Turing because Turing cares about producing programmers who are great at being people, not just the other way around.

## Going Forward

What three skills (professional and/or technical) are you going to take forward with you during your next job post-Turing?

1. Source control mindfulness in group projects
2. MVC/web frameworks
3. How SQL databases work

## Professional Development

* Link to 30-day post-grad job search action plan using [this template](https://github.com/turingschool/career-development-curriculum/blob/master/module_four/post_grad_plan.md): https://github.com/katiekeel/career-development-curriculum/blob/master/module_four/post_grad_plan.md  
