# (Sam Singer) - (M2) Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

(The biggest things I wanted to learn this mod were canvas, for game creation, react, for better website design, and node tries for information storage purposes.)

## Rubric Scores

* **A: End-of-Module Assessment**: 3, 
  The consistent feedback reflects I am thinking and problem solving correctly, however I need more practice with confidence and syntax. I make small mistakes, once they are pointed out, I completely understand why it is a mistake and how to fix it.
* **B: Individual Work & Projects**: 3, 
  I felt I was able to apply the lessons learned to achieve the end goal, however there were areas where I could refactor my code to be cleaner. I also felt that I would focus on certain sections of my static comps, but as a result I would overlook a detail in another section.m
* **C: Group Work & Projects**: 3, 
  I felt that I worked well with others, I was able to learn from them and them from me. I would say similarly to my individual projects, I would focus on certain functionality and not enough on refactoring.
* **D: Professional Skills**: 4,
  I really enjoyed all of our gear ups. I think that everyone was very accepting of the theme of each gear up. Which really helped everyone be honest with our participation. Each lesson seems to play a huge part of our personal career development.
* **E: Feedback & Community Participation**: 3
  I tried to be involved with my classmates whenever possible. Any opportunity to learn or tutor one another was crucial for my development in this mod. I would say I feel like this mod went really well. I only wish our quizes were not on the same day that our big projects are due. Also getting our scores back from our quizlettes and projects would be more helpful so we could be more aware of what we need to work on.

-----------------------

## A: End of Module Assessment

(Passed)


## B: Individual Work & Projects

I found the work in this MOD  very rough but very rewarding. It wasn't always very apparent why, but the concepts we learned are very useful in coding and creating small functionality in websites that will make the user experience much better. Game Time was amazing because we got to make games! Which is a passion of mine. Sorting Suite and Complete Me were awesome lessons hidden in hard work. I now understand nodes and trie traversal. Weatherly was a great intro into react. I think react will be the highl in demand with employers!

### Projects

(Individual Projects)


#### (Sorting Suite)

* [GitHub URL]https://github.com/Cache123/TDD)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/sorting-suite.html)

I actually really enjoyed this project as an introduction into recurrsion. Once you grasp how recurrsion actually works, it is really cool. It was a bit of a bummer that making these algorithms won't be used in the future as sort handles ass that in JS. However I did like learning how to make a function using recurrsion. I was very proud of my quick sort even though merge sort was significantly more difficult. My quick sort was vastly superior than what anyone has ever seen ever! And the best part is, there is nothing especially that great about how it was written. It is a very efficient clean code, but it could be made more efficient. Reguadless it was very uplifting.


(From memory: I could have use more ES6 syntax to cut down on my code lenght. Parts that repeated themselves and as a result could have made come simple functions that would be easier than hard coding so much.)

(evaluation scores: PASS)



#### (Complete Me)

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/Cache123/complete-me)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/complete-me.html)

I think complete me was exhausitng but rewarding. It was some how much more difficult than sorting-suite. Understanding how to traverse the node trie was really cool. Our class came together and worked through everything as a class. "No Child Left Behind". We worked through the logic as a class. We took turns teaching. I think I learned the most from this project mainly because I was asked to explain how the functions worked. That made me really understand how it worked and what was happening.

(From memory: I am a good refactor away from having a really clean code. I made a lot of repetitive areas where I hard coded functionality where I could have made functions that I could call.  )

(evaluation scores:

Fundamental JavaScript & Style

3: Application shows strong effort towards organization, content, and refactoring


Test-Driven Development

3.5: Application is well tested but does not balance isolation and integration tests, using only the data necessary to test the functionality


Encapsulation / Breaking Logic into Components

3: Application effectively breaks logical components apart but breaks the principle of SRP


Functional Expectations

3:: Application meets all requirements as laid out per the specification.


Code Sanitation

The output from ESLint shows…

4 - Zero complaints)

## C: Group Work & Projects

#### (Game Time)

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/JorgeEdPerezGa/game-time)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/game-time.html)

This was the project I looked forward to the most. Being paired with Jorge was awesome. He was great to work with and very receptive to my ideas. We made an outline of daily goals as well as weekly goals. We both were reliable when it came to work and commitment to the project. I learned a lot from Jorge as far as how to think about problems differently to make it an easier proplem to solve. I liked how we made our game have a simple foundation that made add ons easy to apply. Our concept of handling cars and trucks and lanes and logs made our game unique and smart.

(We had some areas of code that could have been made simpler with arrow functions and more ES6 syntax. We also did our testing late in the process. We also could have had some more tests to cover everything in our game.)

(evaluation scores: 

Functional Expectations

3 - Application is fully playable without crashes or bugs
User Interface

3 - The application is pleasant, logical, and easy to use. There are no holes in functionality and the application stands on its own to be used by the instructor without guidance from the developer.
Testing

3 - Project has a running test suite that tests multiple levels but fails to cover some features. All functionality is covered by tests. The application makes some use of integration testing.
JavaScript Style

3 - Application is thoughtfully put together with some duplication and no major bugs. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code is doing.
Workflow

3.5 - The developer makes a series of small, atomic commits that document the evolution of their application. There are no formatting issues in the code base.
Code Sanitation

The output from JSHint shows…

4 - Zero complaints)


#### (Weatherly)

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/Cache123/weatherly)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/weathrly.html)

This project was very draining on me. React is amazing. I find it very awesome how to create components and use them throughout the site. I feel it would have been more useful to teach react right after teaching canvas, mainly because "components and class extends super"  are very similar. I did find that I had a hard time wrapping my head around testing. 

(I now really understand why it is so important to use TDD. We had many bugs in our code that cause minor defects that made our app sub parr. These tests could have caught some of the bugs ahead of time. )

(evaluation scores: 

Specification Adherence

3 - The application consists of one page with all of the major functionality being provided by React. No approach was taken that is counter to the spirit of the project and its learning goals. There are no features missing from above that make the application feel incomplete or hard to use.

User Interface

3 - The application has many strong pages/interactions, but a few holes in lesser-used functionality. The application less than 3 aXe-core violations

HTML Style

3 -  Developer solves structural problems with a balance between conciseness and clarity. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code and every tag and selector is doing.

CSS/Sass Style

3 - Application is thoughtfully put together with some duplication and no major bugs. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of CSS/Sass is doing.

JavaScript / React Style

3 - Application is thoughtfully put together with some duplication and no major bugs. Developer can speak to choices made in the code and knows what every line of code is doing. Application has at least 6 components built out.

Testing

3 - Project has a running test suite that tests and multiple levels but fails to cover some features. All functionality is covered by tests. The application makes some use of feature testing.

Workflow

3 - The developer effectively uses Git branches and many small, atomic commits that document the evolution of their applicatison.

Code Sanitation

The output from a code sanitizer (either JSHint or ESLint) shows…

4 - Zero complaints)



## D: Professional Skills
I felt the Professional skills taught this MOD were extrmely useful and a great first step into the tech community outside of Turing. I found my mentors to be extremely insightful and helpful with creating familiarity with me. The teaching of feedback through conversation and the Johari window was helpful and a great way to have a better understanding of the coder I project to others.

### Gear Up
#### (Cold OutReach)

* [GitHub URL](https://gist.github.com/Cache123/e334a699b32cc1058b30117f8f746460)

Very helpful and learned a lot from this exercise in terms of reaching out to mentors. I'll defintely used what I've learned throughout this lesson as a great way to reach future mentores. It's given me a new found sense of confidence being able to go forward with this tactic armed at my disposal.

### Gear Up
#### (Agile)

* [GitHub URL](https://gist.github.com/Cache123/89ebbb73adb37e8321636308cc5e9335)

The Being an Ally Gear Up was really powerful because it was a great lesson in how to practice what we preach when it came to equality and best practices. We talked about how to handle situations, what to do that might work, and ways to approach the situation as not to add gas to the flames. Especially because we were paired with such random people, we got so many more points of view. 

### Gear Up
#### (Privacy)

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/m4_sessions/1706-inning/group_two.md)

I walked in with thinking who care? I walked out realizing how big of a difference can be made with our efforts as future programmers. I'll use this information hp[efully to make good ethical decisions going forward into my career!


## E: Community Participation

I tired to help where I could particpating more with posse and gear-ups. Also helping mod1 students and answer any questions they would have either through pairing or just randomly through the mod was very helpful for both parties. I enjoyed the increased involvement that I had through Turing and hope to keep that momentum going forward.


### Playing a Part

(In this Mod I tried to be more involved in Gear Ups and my Posse. I think Turing is so amazing and has provided such an wonderful community. I decided that giving back would be a great way to pay it forward. I have also volunteered to speak at a High School with Ellen Mary in September about coding. When we as a class decided to go through Complete-Me I volenteered to run a few sessions, not because I was confident in my answers, but becasue I knew that my class needed someone to drive on the giant monitors and show them we all are struggling and its okay to be lost at times.)



------------------

## Final Review

### Notes

Great Job

### Outcome
Pass
