# (Alexander Rau) - (M1) Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

This module, I really set out to learn the material.  Computers are not something that I've had a lot of access to, and, thus, programming is never something I thought I would have the opportunity to do.  I was really excited to get this opportunity, and I was not going to waste it.  Learning-wise, I decided I was not going to worry about whether or not I understood the concepts or the code right away, my gameplan was to act on as much of the advice that I received from people who have been through this Mod previously as I could and just make sure to, at a base-level, just put in the hours.  This method really worked for me, as I definitely feel I have a good handle on HTML, CSS, and, my biggest struggle, JS. The most helpful advice I got from upper mod-ers was to pair often, and I did that.  I attacked that pairing calendar several times a week, and made sure I was DM-ing anoyone I signed up with at least a day in advance.  I also got a lot out of my mentor, with whom I have weekly meetings, and I scheduled with Pat when he was available, as well.  I made sure, in my meetings with my mentor, that I was not afraid to ask any questions and express any concerns or thoughts I had about the work I was doing.  I also apporached pairing with this attitude, as well.  Outside of pairings and mentors, I aproached this learning process as if I were exercising a muscle: the only way to get better is put in the reps.  I believe all of this has helped me greatly, as I have turned in all of my projects in a state where I was proud of the finished product, and I also feel like I have a much better handle on the material than I did when I started.  For me, my progress from then to now is palpable.

## Rubric Scores

* **A: End-of-Module Assessment**: X
* **B: Individual Work & Projects**: X
* **C: Group Work & Projects**: X
* **D: Professional Skills**: X
* **E: Community Participation**: X

-----------------------

## A: End of Module Assessment

Pass


## B: Individual Work & Projects

Here is an overview of the solo projects I completed this Mod, including: Number Guesser and all 3 Static Comp assignments:

#### Number Guesser

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/raualex/number-guesser)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/number-guesser.html)

This was my first major assignment, besides the basic, introductory website I had to create in the pre-mod work.  This introduced us to using JS (specifically vanilla), and it was also my first time recreating a page from a comp using CSS.  In this project, my code would generaste a random number between 1 and 100, and the user can submit a guess in the input field.  Then, the computer would tell them if they were too low or high from the randomly generated number, and the user would keep submitting guesses until they guess the number.  In my game, I put in contingencies for if the user guessed outside of 1-100 or typing in something that was not a number at all.

Evaluation comments:

- be sure to give proper indentation for my HTML

- review JS for refoactoring possibilities (for example: I had a particularly long "if" statement)

- be nice to myself!


* [Evaluation scores] (https://github.com/turingschool/front-end-submissions-public/blob/master/1806/mod-1/number-guesser/alexander-rau.md)

#### Static Comp 1

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/raualex/ajr-comp-challenge-1)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/m1-static-comp-1.html)

The Static Comp projects were assignments where we would receive a picture comp and were told to recreate it using only HTML and CSS.  We were allowed creative license with color and images, but the basic structure and functionality of the page should be the same.  This was my big intro to making a responsive web page (using Media Queries), and the first time I used Flexbox and Grid.  I also experiemented with color, by using a cooler, more earthy color palette.  I also included aria-labels in my HTML.

#### Static Comp 2

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/raualex/ajr-comp-challenge-2)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/m1-static-comp-2.html)

This second static comp assignment was more pracetice with CSS Flexbox, Grid and responsiveness.  We were given comp to recreate, and we were, again, allowed creative freedom with the colors and images.  As with the previous comp, I used my own color palette, and I experimented to create a color palette that was pleasing and sleek/understated to the user.  Here, too, I included aria-labels in my HTML.

#### Static Comp 3

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/raualex/ajr-comp-challenge-3)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/m1-static-comp-3.html)

This third static comp assignment was, again, a comp picture, which we had to recreate using only HTML and CSS.  This one had many more moving parts that the last two, so I stuck more strictly to the comp, and concentrated my creative freedom on what I was going to do with each box when the screen was squished.  To me, this was the most fun part of the project, as it was like building and re-building a puzzle each time.  I used Grid quite a bit more here than in the previous two projects, having to reassign grid rows and columns at each Media break-point, and I used Flexbox on pretty much every element.  This is also the project where I really took advantage of hover states and put attractive, functional hover states on every clickable button.  In this comp, I tried to make my HTML aira-labels as conversational and intuitive as possible.  All of my buttons include a "Click here to..." type-sentence, my images of graphs state, briefly, what information is showing in the graph (and not just that it's "a graph"), etc.


## C: Group Work & Projects

### Projects

Here is an overview of the partner projects I completed this Mod, including: Linked List, Idea Box and 2DoBox Pivot:

#### Linked List

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/raualex/Linked_list)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/linked-list.html)

This was the second major project in this Mod, the first where we were working with a partner.  In this project, we were to create a website with input fields for users to add a link they wanted to save, and a title for that link.  Upon submission, the link with assigned title would populate as a clickable card on the right side of the screen.  Successive submissions would appear below the previous ones to make a list.  Each list item has a delete button which would remove it from the page, and a "Read" button to mark it as "Read", so it would stand apart from the unread links.  We also included live counters to count how many read and unread links are on the page.

Evaluation comments:

HTML:

 - loved that we used aria labels
 
 - need to further polish our indentation for HTML (per style guides)
 
 CSS:
 
 - we should consider using organizing our CSS in organizational blocks with labeling comments (we just did strict alphabetical order)
 
 JS:
 
 - need to further work on our indentation for JS (per style guides)
 
 - suggested leveraging "or" (`||`) statements to assist in cleaning up some of our longer JS sections
 

* [Evaluation scores] (https://github.com/turingschool/front-end-submissions-public/blob/master/1806/mod-1/linked-list/alexander-alexander.md)

Feedback to me - 

## D: Professional Skills
(Intro)

### Gear Up
#### (Session Name)

* [GitHub URL]()

(3-4 sentences summarizing your takeaways from _each_ session, including things you're continuing to think about, things you learned, things you're doing differently)

## E: Community Participation

### Playing a Part

(ways you supported the larger Turing community)

------------------

## Final Review

### Notes

( Leave blanks for reviewers )

### Outcome

( Leave blanks for reviewers )
