Ling Tran - M2 Portfolio
======
___

## __Self-Assessment__
---

### A: End-of-Module Assessment

A Turing student is able to demonstrate proficiency at programming in accordance
with the module's content and expectations. If you were exempt from the assessment it's a *3*.

* 4: Student achieved two or more "4s" on the assessment

### B: Individual Work & Projects

A Turing student works to maximize their skill growth and demonstrates
that skill across a variety of work.

* 4: Student demonstrates excellent growth by not only achieving satisfactory
evaluations for each project but also pushing their learning beyond expectations.


### C: Group Work & Projects

A Turing student contributes significantly to group projects, helps the team
develop their technical skills, and delivers a high-quality product.

* 4: Student consistently helps their teammates be their best selves, learn at
an accelerated pace, and achieve great results.


### D: Community Participation

A Turing student builds up the community around them by participating and
supporting other students, the larger Turing family, and persons outside our
walls who want to develop their own skills.

* 3: Student participates in required activities and does at least one or two
above-and-beyond supports of the community.

### E: Peer & Instructor Feedback

A Turing student accelerates the growth of those around
them by delivering specific, kind, and actionable feedback. They accelerate their
own growth by taking in and acting on the feedback of their peers and instructors.

* 4: Student helps others to be their best selves while using peer feedback
to shape their own character and behavior.

___

## __Individual__
---

### Middle of Module Assessment

Assessed by: Rachel

|  **Category**           | **Score**| ** Description**                                                                                   |
|-------------------------|----------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Analytic/Algorithmic Thinking     | 3.5      | Between developer independently breaks complex processes into logical sequences of small steps and validates progress along the way & developer breaks complex problems into small, digestible steps and executes them |
| Ruby Syntax & Library              | 3       |   Developer is able to comfortably implement solutions in Ruby                                                |
| Rails Syntax & API | 3.5     |  Between developer is able to smoothly utilize Rails methods and structures with a minimum of debugging or support & developer is able to utilize Rails methods and structures, but needs occasional guidance   |
| Rails Style                     | 3.5   |   Between developer is able to craft Rails features that make smart use of Ruby, follow the principles of MVC, and keep logic out of views and controllers & developer generally writes clean Rails features that make smart use of Ruby, with some struggles in pushing logic down the stack    |
| Testing                | 4     |  Developer writes tests at multiple layers of abstraction to drive development          |
| Collaboration           | 4      |  Developer *actively seeks* collaboration both before implementing, while in motion, and when stuck |

### End of Module Assessment

Assessed by: Andrew

|  **Category**           | **Score**| ** Description**                                                                                 |
|-------------------------|----------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Analytic/Algorithmic Thinking    | 4        | Developer independently breaks complex processes into logical sequences of small steps and validates progress along the way                 |
| Ruby Syntax & Library | 3.5   | Developer is able to comfortably implement more than one solution in Ruby through refactoring                |
| Rails Syntax & API  | 4     | Developer is able to smoothly utilize Rails methods and structures with a minimum of debugging or support                 |
| MVC & Rails Style                     | 3       | Developer generally writes clean Rails features that make smart use of Ruby, with some struggles in pushing logic down the stack      |
| Testing                | 3.5       | Between developer writes tests at multiple layers of abstraction to drive development & developer writes tests at multiple layers of abstraction to drive development with guidance         |
| Collaboration           | 4     | Developer actively seeks collaboration both before implementing, while in motion, and when stuck |

### Attendance
100%

### Non-evaluated Work

I started an individual side project this module that is still a work in progress:

* Jr Dev Interview Prep App (WIP)

I would like to start working on another side project and potentially consider writing it in Clojure (dreaming!):

* Flashcard app that helps automate learning schedule

##### Jr Dev Interview Prep App (WIP)

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/lingtran/jr_dev_prep_app)
* [README](https://github.com/lingtran/jr_dev_prep_app/blob/master/rails-mini_project_original.md)

This is a baseline creation of a side project idea I've been contemplating about since before starting Turing. The hyperlinked README outlines the initial milestones I wanted to hit by leveraging the Rails Mini Project as a catalyst to implementing the idea. In this two-day into the weekend project I explored ReST-ful CRUD and the Rails framework to build a simple app for newbie junior developers in the job market. At this point we only had a week or week and a half of Rails, so an important takeaway during this short timeframe was the idea that models and controllers do not have a 1:1 relationship. It took me, in consultation with a couple peers, a while to figure out routing so that notes to a question can be saved and trigger the next question. It will be interesting to refactor using jQuery/Javascript for this feature.

I struggled to get Bootstrap to work, so I will be returning to the project to re-work styling and figure out why it wasn't working!

I also tackled this project exploring an additional two areas of discomfort - RSpec and FactoryGirl. The headaches with FactoryGirl remain, but grounds for understanding basic FactoryGirl has been made.

I have a laundry list of action items to take to improve the user experience and complete full CRUD functionality. The current state of the app is technically not deployable - so another lesson I learned is not to push anything that isn't ready to be viewed by the public.

I wish I had asked permission to start this project early in the module (perhaps week one or two) as part of my breakable toy chest to help with my learning.

Peer Reviewer: Deb

Notes from peer reviewer:
* Misplaced notes, but recall being given 3's and 4's based on rubric


##### Mix Master

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/lingtran/mix_master)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/lesson_plans/tree/master/ruby_02-web_applications_with_ruby/mix_master)

##### Task Manager (Sinatra CRUD)

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/lingtran/task_manager)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/lesson_plans/blob/master/ruby_02-web_applications_with_ruby/crud_sinatra.markdown)

##### Tool Chest

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/lingtran/tool_chest)

### Blog Post

* [Seize the 'vuja de'](https://gist.github.com/lingtran/6a1d77c08f55c2b273790ac997ed4ae5)

---

## __Team Projects (Evaluated)__

---
I completed the following paired work this module:

* Rush Hour
* Little Shop

#### Rush Hour
* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/lingtran/rush-hour)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/curriculum/blob/master/source/projects/rush_hour.md)
* Utilized a Waffle.io board

This project seemed to be an extension of Black Thursday in terms of querying a database. I learned the power of querying databases utilizing languages such as SQL, Sequel, etc. versus querying with plain Ruby. This was also a useful lesson in becoming more familiar with how params are taken in and the JSON parser was an interesting exercise. I was definitely not comfortable debugging a Sinatra app and utilizing Sequel during this time in the module. Despite this initial discomfort, perhaps the long-drawn nature of this project helped facilitate an appreciation the the 'magic' that is Rails. #RailsDoesWaaat

Project Partners: Drew, Mark

Assessed by: Andrew

Notes:
* Testing:
  - Number of tests decent
  - Consider scope of data needed for test - as little data as possible
  - If data is being reused outside of a test, then create a test helper method to generate that data
  - Consider name of tests as related to what is being tested (ex., model vs. controller)
  - Uniqueness and validation tests - set up both valid and invalid data in test; be mindful of difference between #valid? and #save
  - Preferred Minitest syntax: ```assert(object).respond_to?(:table)```, rather than ```assert_equal object, :table```
  - Would have liked to see more scoping in feature tests
* Tip for DTR coverage:
  - Talk about style guide (hash syntax, how to express methods, number of lines, structure of tests, etc.)
* Other areas for refactoring:
  - Consider edge case for missing URL
  - Validator object in Server
  - Separate methods for #get_data and #format_data
  - Consider scope of responsiveness

| **Category**                                    | **Score** |
|-------------------------------------------------|-----------|
| Overall Functionality                           | 3         |
| Test-Driven Development                         | 3         |
| Encapsulation / Breaking Logic into Components  | 3         |
| Fundamental Ruby & Style                        | 4         |
| Sinatra                                         | 3         |
| View                                            | 3.5       |
| Workflow                                        | 3         |

#### Habitask (Little Shop)
* [GitHub URL](INSERT URL)
* [README](https://github.com/pindell-matt/habitask/blob/master/README.md)
* [Original Assignment](https://github.com/turingschool/curriculum/blob/master/source/projects/little_shop.markdown)
* [Waffle.io Board](https://waffle.io/pindell-matt/habitask)
* [Heroku app URL](https://habitask.herokuapp.com)

Rather than focusing on products, Habitask is based on the idea of TaskRabbit for nonprofits. Rather than placing orders on items, visitors to Habitask can make time commitments to tasks that benefit the community. Visitors can create accounts to track their commitments. There is also an Admin of the site who can create and edit tasks.

This was a rewarding project in that it was the first time I worked on such a large group at Turing. It was also exciting to be given space to take creative license in conceptualizing our shop. If we had more time, it would have been exciting to do more analytics because time functions as an interesting dimension for our product offering. #RailsDoesWaaat

Project Partners: Claudia, Matt (project lead), Patrick

Assessed by: Andrew

Notes:
* Styling feedback are for future reference, not being graded on:
  * Images are different sizes, so want to make them uniform
  * Change “Add to Cart” to “Add to List”
  * Center cards in cart when things are removed
  * Style flash messages to be a different color
  * Place margin and padding for the container

* Liked two different paths in the login page (login or sign up) - great for user experience, visitor can do something without having to actually read

* Liked “Back to Commitments” button in the Task details card if navigating from the user commitments page

* Might be helpful to have a Mission Statement somewhere to explain what Habitask does

* Views:
  * Liked use of partials
  * can use more helper methods for if/else conditions on buttons - does not count against because they’re not really logic; this is just a refactoring item
  * Liked commitments/task_table partial
  * login/logout partial can be a helper
  * partials => reserved for html
  * Complimented efforts at refactoring


* Controllers:
  * warning: Calling Model.all as a before_action will require heavy lifting every time app is loaded, so not recommended for bigger apps in the future (set_city in the application controller)
  * questioned CitiesController / parameterize
  * liked the inter-join of cities and tasks tables in the CitiesController
  * Liked the class methods in the CommitmentsController


* Models:
  * Commitment: can refactor #self.associate_tasks(cart, volunteer) since there is another object within the block; probably start in the CommitmentsController, may involve a CartCommitments PORO


* Testing:
  * when feature of logging in is not being used, use stubbing instead because login is heavy process
  * would have liked to see more scoping
  * feature tests could have had more contexts, so that some feature tests could have been tested within contexts of other feature tests
  * to test a non-existing path, just visit a made-up path
numbers are kind of low but each test is robust, so it balances out

* Workflow:
  * Deployment tip
    * push to Heroku on a branch or just push directly to Heroku without Github
    * don’t need to push to Github master
  * Have more conversations as in commenting for all pull requests


| **Category**                                    | **Score** |
|-------------------------------------------------|-----------|
| Feature Completeness                            | 4         |
| Views                                           | 4         |
| Controllers                                     | 4         |
| Models                                          | 3.5       |
| Testing                                         | 4         |
| Usability                                       | 4         |
| Workflow                                        | ?         |

#### Feedback to Me

**Project DTR memos**
* [Rush Hour - DTR memo](https://github.com/drew-t/rush-hour/blob/master/DTR.markdown)
* [Little Shop - Setting Expectations memo](https://gist.github.com/Claudia108/22de995a4bcf33e283eb362c71d0a615#file-setting_expectations-markdown)

**Project Partners' feedback**

* Mark | Rush Hour:

> Ling: Bulbasaur is very focused on writing tests and having it drive the development of our code. She's very focused on details without losing focus on the goals to achieve certain functionality. Bulbasaur writes extremely clean and well-formatted code. She's very easy to work with and a great part of any group. She also sings a lot and brings snacks. I hope to be paired with Bulbasaur on a project in the future.

* Drew | Rush Hour:

> Ling was very good at managing the team throughout the project.  She kept up with the waffle cards and kept us on track by regularly checking in.  She kept a very positive attitude during the project which helped me to keep going when I didn’t want to anymore.  She was always prepared and always working to improve the project and the group members.

* Claudia | Habitask (Little Shop):

>  Ling is a joy to work with. Her bubbly personality makes the interactions very joyful. She is a very resourceful problem solver with strong attention to detail and she has a very good understanding of a rails app. She took on many of the tricky parts of our project and found interesting solutions also utilizing the greater Turing community. I appreciated her commitment to the project, going the extra mile to make it great. I sometimes had trouble to follow her thought process partly because she speaks very fast :simple_smile: and partly because I couldn’t follow the steps of her logic. She would always take the time to catch me up.  She was instrumental for the success of our great project - not to forget mentioning her one and only cat Lola, who’s picture made it in our app.

* Matt | Habitask (Little Shop):

> During Little Shop, Ling sat me down and provided a breakdown of her 'protips' for working with her - it was hilarious at the time, and showed an impressive level of self-awareness that I certainly don't have. She kept us on track, was constantly positive, and her first instinct was always to listen and absorb before responding - which was a huge asset in a team of four, where things can get hectic quickly."

* Patrick | Habitask (Little Shop):

> One thing that stands out about working with Ling on this project is her very positive attitude and strong work ethic throughout. Whenever I worked with Ling, we were able to write quality code in a low-stress and efficient manner. Ling’s work flow is very impressive and her understanding of the MVC is super-solid! One are ling could improve in is leveraging tests a bit more to understand where code is breaking. Today we were having some difficulty isolating an error, but by running single tests and diagnosing with a debugger things became clear relatively easily.

**Feedback from peers outside of team projects**

* Dan Winter, 1510 | Pairing:

> I first met Ling when she was entering mod 1 and joined my posse. She was always eager to learn something new. Even when Zyg disbanded (rip), she continued to seek learning opportunities from our old compadres. When I was working on my resume to perfect it while applying to jobs, Ling gave indispensable advice, not just about the content and styling but how to tell the story that would engage employers. I’ve been using that advice during my job hunt and with one offer in-hand, I believe I’m on my way to another 2 and possibly 3 offers. She showed me it’s not just how well you can code but how well you can communicate your story as a person. We’ve also paired on some code wars exercises and each time I was ready to look at some answers, Ling insisted on persevering through the tough problems to discover better ways on our own so that we didn’t short change ourselves with the struggle. That eagerness to embrace the struggle will be a huge asset as she continues down her coding journey.


* Colin Osborn, 1603 | Pairing:

> I worked with Ling on the Night Writer project a few different times looking for insight on how to solve my problems. Ling was an excellent person to talk to, not just because she had personal experience with the project, but she was always very clear and communicative. She never gave me an answer, but was always able to point into the right direction, or help me in thinking in a certain concept or direction. It’s very clear Ling knows what she’s talking about, and considering how much help I solicited from her, she’s also very eager to help and also learn about other ways to do the same problem.

* Erinna Chen, 1511 | Pairing:

> Ling is an enthusiastic programmer (and person), and I commend her for being willing to jump into the Clarke coin project even if the material was intimidating. I think Ling struggles a bit with conveying how serious she actually is, so I think that she should work on learning to communicate her discomfort and knowledge honestly and more forcefully. I look forward to getting to pair more with her in the future.

* Heidi Hoopes, 1511 | Miyamoto Posse/Pairing:

> Ling was a fun addition to our new posse this module and I enjoyed getting to work with her. Not only does she have a quick and creative mind, but she also engages those around her. She's an awesome teammate because of her positive mindset and the way she encourages and inspires those around her.

* Deb Hamel, 1602 | Pairing:

> Ling is one of the smartest and most insightful members of the Turing community. She has taken time to pair with me multiple times and I always learn something about coding and  something about myself. She is focused, and effective in her work style. She is honest, caring and so much fun. She is a talented programmer and will be very successful. I hope she will overcome some of the irrational anxiety that crops up for her, but I do also love her softer side.

**Feedback from mentor**

* Minnie Lee | Turing alum, 1502 | Paired during Rush Hour:

> you guys worked pretty well together despite some road blocks. What you guys learned from this project, in my opinion, was to take breaks when you're really stuck, and to debug and walk through your code to better understand errors.


---
## __Community__
---
### Miyamoto Posse
**Things done**
* Worked on building a game using the Gosu gem
* Homework/project support on Wednesdays

**Favorite thing about the posse experience**
* Cross-cohort interaction
* Learning from later module students Chelsea and Heidi

**How has the posse experience helped me grow was a professional?**
* It was exciting to work on a project that is so different from what I've worked on until this point. It served as motivation in remembering the end goal, which is building a foundation of skills from which I can draw upon to create tools/programs that are fun and/or meaningful.

### Giving Feedback
** Project partners' feedback**

* Mark | Rush Hour:

> For Squirtle (Mark):
Squirtle is very versatile. He is strong in every possible way, in addition to being a fun and compassionate team member. He is tenacious with debugging - using tools to pry into the issue rather than just thinking and talking about possible sources for issues. I learned to be more tenacious in this way by working with Squirtle. The only area of improvement I can identify in working with Squirtle is perhaps being more patient with other people's workflow! Other than that, with an established rapport, I imagine working with Squirtle will be just as awesome again.

* Drew | Rush Hour:

> For Charmander(Drew):
This will be my second time partnering with Charmander on a project. He is a steady partner with a rich inner life. I learned to be braver in exploring options and refactoring in the problem-solving process from him. He was markedly proactive with writing tests, which was something he had been working on since working together on Black Thursday in module 1. The only area for improvement I can identify for Charmander is that sometimes he can get caught up in his thought process and not communicate it immediately with his project partner. This is something I'm flexible with but it might be misleading for a more sensitive project partner. It'll be hilarious if I get paired with Charmander again.

* Claudia | Habitask (Little Shop):

> Claudia is extremely detail oriented and able to communicate her logic breakdown in discussions. On the latter quality, compared to all my project partners to date, she has exhibited the strongest communication abilities in the problem-solving process. On the flip side of the same coin, Claudia may have the tendency to lose sight of the big picture by digging too deep into details. I am not sure if may be this is just my perception and I can see how others may have the same misunderstanding. So a simple preface to the effect of, "I know xyz is the big picture, but at the moment, I think abc should be considered either now or later," could be a helpful communication device. Because Claudia is also very self-aware, I can tell she has been practicing this more towards the end of our project timeline. Claudia is a joy to work with because she is thoughtful, calm, and a fellow chocolate ambassador. She is a strong member for any team she is assigned to work with. Thanks for being you, Claudia!

* Matt | Habitask (Little Shop):

> I am impressed by Matt's relationship management skills working with a relatively large project group for nearly two full weeks. He is able to walk the fine line of asserting his opinions while also listening to his teammates - I guess some people would call this the ability to influence. He also has mad googling skills that helped get us over issues when we got really stuck. (Teach me your ways, Matt!) Lastly, through working with him on the Little Shop project, I find myself formatting my own code better because he is unwaveringly disciplined in writing clean and well-organized code. He is also a very fun team member. If Matt were to improve upon something, I might suggest not being as afraid to assert himself. You have nothing to be afraid of dude!

* Patrick | Habitask (Little Shop):

> Patrick has uncanny focus when working, which makes him a strong project partner because in addition to being focused he is also proactive in seeking solutions and experimenting. Whenever we paired off throughout the project, it felt like we were able to complete user stories or debug quickly because he works with such seamless efficiency. Prior to Little Shop, we had paired for in-class exercises, and it has always been easy collaborating with him. I am impressed by Patrick's ability to retain so much information! If I had to identify an area for Patrick to improve, it may possibly be being more diligent with getting rid of commented out ```byebug``` lines. Patrick is yet another person I would enjoy collaborating with again for all the aforementioned reasons. Execellent work, Patrick!

**Feedback to peers outside of project teams**

* Colin Osborn, 1602 | Pairing:

> I worked with Colin a few times when he was implementing Night Writer. The thing that stands out about Colin is how quickly he puts feedback into action. The first time we worked together, I noticed he was stuck in his head hypothesizing about issues rather than throwing in a pry. So I showed him how to befriend pry. The next day or so, when we worked together again, he was prying away and seemed really comfortable with the tool. I am impressed by how calm Colin is even under pressure and the clarity with which he asks questions. Colin also seems to be more open this module and I am glad that he is letting people into his world!

* Heidi Hoopes | Miyamoto Posse/Pairing:

> Heidi provided assistance a number of times when I was stuck on project issues (especially those pertaining to FactoryGirl!). She was very thoughtful with her questions to get on board and contextualize particular problems. And the best part is that we were always able to get to a solution! I got to know Heidi through participation in the Miyamoto Posse and Clarke Coin hackathon group. She is so knowledgeable and helpful, I don't know how I did not get to know Heidi until this module! Heidi is so strong I am not sure I can identify any areas for improvement. Perhaps adopt another cat if you are not already a cat guardian, Heidi!?

* Erinna Chen, 1511 | Pairing:

> I did not have opportunities to pair with Erinna until this module. She knows so much!!! Despite being a genius, Erinna does not possess an ounce of arrogance. She cares for the community and uses her technical strengths and encouragement to prop others up. I am impressed by how Erinna manages her time, juggling projects with her participation in various time-consuming activities. How does she do it?! I am not sure. I hope to learn as much as possible from Erinna before she finishes Turing. Thanks for all that you do, Erinna!

* Deb Hamel, 1602 | Pairing:

> Deb has a tremendous work ethic and is one of the most compassionate and caring spirits at Turing. When we paired a few times this module, she demonstrated her knowledge of the content but only after encouragement. I think a factor that underlies her timidity is self-doubt, which is KURAZY because she is super smart and can speak about the content. Another contributing factor is that she gets ahead of herself in the thought process before coding anything, which can get her in a pickle. If Deb can figure out how to simply focus without getting loss in her head, she is GOLDEN. Also, I am grateful for having such a wonderful person in 1602 - she embodies the kind soul that is 1602.

### Playing a Part
* Clojure club.
* Clarke Coin hackathon group.
* Signed up as a prework guide.
* Had pairing sessions with other module students and tutored a couple 1603 students.
* Still in TAAAP.
* Chocolate ambassador.
* In progress - crafting a podcast episode; self-designated intern to Brennan.
