# Joe Perry - Module 2 Portfolio


## Individual

#### Your Mission

Module two represented a very different type of challenge for me compared to my first six weeks at Turing. While I felt supremely confident in the more heavily logic-oriented problem solving in module one, web development and styling were unexplored territory for me. My primary goal for this module was to develop my comfort and skill in these areas while also improving my ability to collaborate and communicate on larger group projects.


#### End of Module Assessment

Challenge: Implement scoring for a typing test program and add database columns and an index page to display attempts and scores for a given user.

Assessed By: Rachel Warbelow

#### Notes:

* Great explanations of thought process and next steps.
* Comfortable generating migrations to add column.
* Able to use save_and_open_page and byebug for debugging.
* Able to trace and hypothesize about errors.
* Very careful and comfortable with syntax.
* Good understanding of nested routes vs. non-nested routes.
* Able to effectively navigate through rails "golden path".
* Knew to not filter/query in view.
* Able to quickly think through errors and fix effectively.

#### Scores:

1. Analytic/Algorithmic Thinking = 3.5
2. Ruby Syntax & Standard Library = 3
3. Rails Syntax & API = 4
4. Rails Style = 3 (highest score for this challenge)
5. Testing = 3.5
6. Collaboration = 4


#### Attendance

I had no absences during module 2.


#### Two Ruby Challenges Completed

Repository: https://github.com/jwperry/mod2_ruby_challenges

1) SwiftStats

2) Pig Latin Translator

3) Plumber


#### Blog Post

Turing blog post, expounding on my experiences transitioning into working with larger teams and groups.

http://jwperry.github.io/2016/01/20/learning-to-work-in-development-teams.html


## Team

### Projects

A list of all module 2 project and assessment scores.


### TrafficSpy

A Sinatra-based web application to monitor, analyze, and display website traffic data.

https://github.com/martensonbj/traffic-spy-skeleton

Teammates: Brenna Martenson, Jordan Lawler

Reviewed by: Mike Dao

#### Scores:

Functionality - 3
Test-Driven Development - 4
Encapsulation / Breaking Logic into Components - 4
Fundamental Ruby & Style - 3
Sinatra / Web Business Logic - 4
View Layer - 3

#### Notes:

* 104 assertions 47 test.
* 96.5 coverage.
* Used a few partials.
* Some opportunities to refactor ruby into separate methods.
* I liked how you used methods to abstract out conditionals.
* Think about how you would refactor to make use of Poros and helper methods in your view.


### Little Shop of Orders

A Rails-based web storefront app offering purchase functionality.

https://github.com/stevepentler/Hire-My-Tribe

Teammates: Aaron Greenspan, Hector Huertas, Steve Pentler

Reviewed by: Rachel Warbelow

#### Scores:

Feature Completeness: 4 (lite) - All features are correctly implemented along with two extensions.

Views: 4 - Views show logical refactoring into layout(s), partials and helpers, with no logic present.

Controllers: 3 - Controllers are generally well organized with three or fewer particularly ugly parts.

Models: 3.5 - Models show satisfactory organization, refactoring, and appropriate use of Rails features.

Testing: 4 - Project has a running test suite that exercises the application at multiple levels.

Usability: 3 - Project is highly usable, but needs more polish before it'd be customer-ready.

Workflow: 3.5


## Community


#### Feedback

1510 - Brenna Martenson

I had the pleasure of working with J.P. on a project based in Sinatra called TrafficSpy. He has an amazing ability to patiently hone in on a problem and tease it apart until it makes sense, or until he knows the right question to ask. This makes his questions and comments meaningful and hold significant weight. I see so much skill and forethought in J.P.'s coding and problem solving abilities, my only criticism is that he may not see that in himself - I have no doubt that once he finds that confidence he will be a coding powerhouse!


1510 - Jordan Lawler

Me and JP worked together for the TrafficSpy project.  JP proved to be an invaluable member to our team due to his attention to detail, effective communication skills, leadership through example, and incredible work ethic.   From the start of the project JP had a keen eye for errors, potential future shortcomings, and styling problems with our code.  Rather than just fix these and move on, JP spoke with both of us about the change, and if there were better options.  The benefit of this to our team cannot be understated.  When it became clear we would have a late night or two, JP was not only okay with the long hours, but pushed through enthusiastically helping the team pull through when moral was low.  Outside of small team engagements  JP quick to offer help to others, and always positive,  making him an integral part to our cohort and Turing in general.  

If I had to pick a point of critique for JP (which is very difficult to do),  it would be that his voice is one of reason, kindness, and value that is rare to come by (not the critique).  While leading by example is an incredible trait to have, it would be to everyones at Turing's benefit to hear more of JPs voice on a day to day basis!


1510 - Aaron Greenspan

It’s been an absolute blast working with you on Little Shop.  You are perhaps the most level headed guy I’ve yet worked with, and are also perhaps the most in tune with where our group is at an where it needs to go.  I especially appreciate the care you take in asserting your opinions, and the careful clarity you provide about what you want and think is best.  Pressed to give negative feedback, I think you should be more willing to strike out on your own earlier on in a project… Your work these past few days building out new functionality and styling is of the highest quality in my mind, and you are definitely doing some of your best work on your own.


1510 - Hector Huertas

Feedback: Its a pleasure working with you.  I have a hard time finding constructive feedback to give you. I think you could benefit from using more shorcuts, since your typing is already fast. And another small thing is that sometimes you wait too much to ask for help. Specially with weird errors, I think is great to pick someone for a fast “do you see something weird here”? Your are an awesome partner man, keep up the good work!


1510 - Steve Pentler

JP doesn’t take shortcuts. When everyone else is getting lazy about GitHub, testing, or convention, he speaks up and defends his points. I also appreciate how he was confident enough to question the aesthetics of my design decisions and encourage me to think from a user’s perspective. When I listened, he was generally correct. I know I wouldn’t be as apt to question his design decisions on the back-end, so I admire his inquisitive nature. JP  is exceptionally easy to work with. On a few instances, he clearly communicated his needs/expectations to the group with a very palatable demeanor. I can sincerely say he is in the top three pairing partners I’ve had thus far at Turing.


1511 - Nicholas Dorans

I met JP in my second week of module 1 and from the very beginning he has been an extremely active asset in helping me learn the ins and outs of Ruby programming. He has a very simplistic and positive style of teaching. At no point did I ever feel like he’s just "given me the answer", instead he instills the confidence in me to figure it out myself. He has always made himself available for any and all questions that I, or others, may have. And he breaks down those questions into clear and logical solutions. A good amount of my success in the program has to be attributed to me reaching out to JP about things that may not have been clear to me at first. Like I said he has a great way of breaking down complex issues and explaining them in the most understandable manner possible. I would even go as far as to say that JP has been mentor of mine throughout module 1. I only hope that I can pay the favor forward as well as he has to help out whoever I can in the upcoming cohort(s). I wish him nothing but the best of luck throughout the rest of the program and look forward to working with JP in the future. You da man, DAWG!!

1511 - Sunny Khalsa

I hear JP’s name so much in my cohort that sometimes it seems like he is in my module. I’ve witnessed the countless pairing sessions and assignment sit-downs, but I’ve also been extremely lucky in getting the chance to pair with him as well. He is highly adept at taking complex problems and dishing them out in digestible bite size portions. Fundamental parts of ruby such as Classes, methods, blocks, arguments, the stack, etc were difficult for me in the beginning and I attribute a lot of the progress that I made early on to JP. He is a wonderful addition to Turing and a great part of this community.


#### Playing a Part

I've participated in the larger Turing Community in the following ways:

* Have participated in weekly Lunch Roulettes and have taken initiative to create Slack channels to begin dialogue.
* Have attended all 1510 module team building exercises, and field days.
* Together with Greg Armstrong, spear-headed efforts to revitalize Goldberg posse activity and ensure a more welcoming posse experience for new students.
* Have spent significant amounts of time pairing with new students. My goal, which I achieved, for this module was to meet all of 1511 and to work with at least half of them on one or more occasions.
* Have attended some meetings of Turing Elixir Club and Computability Theory.
* Have assisted with workspace cleanup with Goldberg posse and 1510 cohort.
* Have attended weekly lightning talks and student-led sessions.
* Did my first lightning talk, covering the role of programming in energy and commodities trading.
* My group attended and presented our Little Shop project at Turing's January end-of-module demo night.


## Review


#### Notes:


#### Outcome:


#### A: End-of-Module Assessment
A Turing student is able to demonstrate proficiency at programming in accordance with the module's content and expectations.

4: Student achieved two or more "4s" on the assessment

3: Student achieved a "3" or better on each category of the assessment

2: Student earned one score below "3" on the assessment

1: Student earned two or more scores below "3" on the assessment


#### B: Individual Work & Projects
A Turing student works to maximize their skill growth and demonstrates that skill across a variety of work.

4: Student demonstrates excellent growth by not only achieving satisfactory evaluations for each project but also pushing their learning beyond expectations.

3: Student demonstrates commitment and growth in their work through satisfactory evaluations of each project or a clearly upward-sloping trend.

2: Student demonstrates some lack of engagement or growth in their individual skill or project outcomes without a clear upward trend.

1: Student does not show the commitment expected of Turing students.


#### C: Group Work & Projects
A Turing student contributes significantly to group projects, helps the team develop their technical skills, and delivers a high-quality product.

4: Student consistently helps their teammates be their best selves, learn at an accelerated pace, and achieve great results.

3: Student fully participates in their group work to facilitate group harmony while achieving consistently satisfactory results.

2: Student participates somewhat in their group work but is either not a dependable member of the team or achieves consistently sub-par work.

1: Student is not a valuable member of their teams.


#### D: Community Participation
A Turing student builds up the community around them by participating and supporting other students, the larger Turing family, and persons outside our walls who want to develop their own skills.

4: Student has a significant positive impact on the learning and spirit of the people around them.

3: Student participates in required activities and does at least one or two above-and-beyond supports of the community.

2: Student participates in most required community activities (demos, lightning talks, etc) but does not do anything else of significance.

1: Student stays in their lane and focuses just on their own learning.


#### E: Peer & Instructor Feedback
A Turing student accelerates the growth of those around them by delivering specific, kind, and actionable feedback. They accelerate their own growth by taking in and acting on the feedback of their peers and instructors.

4: Student helps others to be their best selves while using peer feedback to shape their own character and behavior.

3: Student consistently delivers meaningful feedback for peers and implements strategies to improve themselves in response to feedback.

2: Student gives meaningful impact to peers as well as being aware of themes in the feedback they receive.

1: Student does not consistently participate in or construct meaningful peer feedback.