30 day plan: https://gist.github.com/erikaannesmith/33b0c6c294fc34abfe0581c997a93fec


Turing Story

As a few of you know, I traveled for a bit directly before Turing.

While I was traveling, I used to save plane tickets. To me, they served as this reminder of where I’d been - a sort of tangible form of my memories. I wrote everyday out of fear that I would forget a person I’d met or the way the being away from my family for the first time in my life forced me to make friends in pancake lines, at airport gates, with people I didn’t know I had nothing in common with besides the fact that we were all floating on this rock and excited for whatever was coming next.

I had this conversation with my dad when I got back to the US, and he brought up this idea that I should let go of the specifics that I’d been holding onto so tightly. At the end of the day, I didn’t travel to remember those certain things, I traveled to gain self-reliance. He told me to ditch the tickets, the journals, to live out who I had become as a result of that adventure, and move onto the next. I left the notebooks at home, and so began Turing.

But in true ‘me’ fashion, I spent most of Mod 1 furiously writing down anything and everything that came from the instructors. 3 Turing notebooks and 7 months later, I’m reminded of my dad’s advice.

One of my favorite lines was in this movie, where he says, “I guess in the end you start thinking about the beginning”. And here I am- thinking about what I expected from Turing 7 months ago. I expected to learn how to code in Ruby, and maybe that’s as far as I had thought ahead. I don’t think I had realized until more recently how what I’ve gotten out of this past adventure wasn’t something that could be recorded in a notebook- it wasn’t syntax, or framework file-structures, or the exact definition of an API. It was the ability to figure it the fuck out. It was a network of people who have struggled alongside me as we have, almost without us really realizing it, become programmers. It was self-reliance in a trade that makes me feel like I’ve done something of value when I go to bed at night.

A few weeks into Mod 4, I was sitting in a coffee shop filling out an application to a company in LA, and it had a section that just said ‘tell me about yourself’. One of the really difficult things about job searching remotely is that ‘Turing’ is rarely recognized outside of Colorado. When my resume is reviewed and the term ‘programming bootcamp’ is evaluated, it’s not given the credibility it deserves. All that means is that it’s up to me to explicitly convey both the skillset and the passion that I’ve developed while I’ve been here. So these ‘tell me about yourself’ questions, although they’re probably intended to provide a little blurb about yourself, seem like my only opportunity to give them the real story. 

If you’re answering that question extremely honestly, it’s kind of disconcerting to let your mind go there. So I drafted my honest response, and then submitted it without revision. What I wrote about programming kind of surprised me, but my fingers just kept typing. This is what they said: “Programming has become the object of my affection. It is the thing I want to continually give more of myself to, even at the end of long days when I feel like I have nothing else to give. It is what I'm undyingly curious about and something that has given me a better understanding of myself as a human.” Those sound like wedding vows.

As a few of you know, I’m moving to LA this month. I’m not sure what’s waiting for me out there, which initially made me pretty nervous. But I’m leaving all my notebooks and tickets and specifics behind, because I know that who I’ve become over the past 22 years and especially the last 7 months is able to navigate the unknown and come out the other side better for it. It’s been your confidence in me, as instructors, that has allowed me the opportunity to develop that confidence in myself, and I could never express in words how much your guidance has impacted me. Coming straight from college, where instructors rarely know you by name, Turing’s staff has continually floored me with not only your genuine support for us as both students and humans, but also my admiration for you all both as programmers and individuals. I will always be grateful for these past 30 80-hour weeks in the basement of a bank where I first toured one day in March of 2017. It’s here that decided I wanted to be part of something bigger than myself, and I still haven’t looked back.

