Meg Stang - M1 Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

What did you set out to accomplish this module? Were you successful?
  - I wanted to learn a lot, and feel comfortable with challenges. I wanted to be able to trust myself in knowing that I have the skills to work on a certain project or problem. I also wanted to pass the module on my first try, and complete all of my projects. I feel that I was successful in these goals.

What did you struggle most with this module? What did you learn from that struggle?
  - In general, I've always struggled with text comprehension, and I remember an independent challenge (boats and docks.. something like that) where I was stuck just comprehending what exactly I had to do. In situations like these, when I'm having trouble understanding a piece of text, I know that I benefit from hearing someone else say it, or bouncing ideas off of someone else.

## Projects

What were your favorite projects this module? Least favorite? Why?
- I really loved battleship! It was fun to have something in the terminal to play with and see an outcome from. I also really enjoyed Enigma since it was a puzzle in itself, on top of the actual coding aspect of it. I'll say Black Thursday was my least favorite but I found it interesting to learn about csv, and gain a better understanding of that material.

What did you learn from your independent projects?
- I learned that I'm capable of doing projects on my own. I was worried about that coming in... if I'd always need someone to help me or not. However, I ended up enjoying independent challenges.

What did you learn from your paired projects?
- I learned that I can learn a lot from other people just by working with them. Before enigma, I was uncertain about my feelings towards hashes, and on day 1 of the project, my partner convinced me to use a hash for the characters. Although I was nervous, my partner helped push me out of my comfort zone and taught me something new.

## Community

How did you contribute to the Turing community this module?
- I feel like I was able to help a few people that were having difficulty in our cohort. I also made many-a-coffee-brews in the morning ;)

What would you like to do to contribute next module?
- I would like to be a mentor to someone in Mod 1. I realized that I enjoy working with people on understanding the material.. I think I've been missing teaching a lot, and I'd like to help others in that way next mod. Also... I want to start a running posse during lunch!

## Self-Assessment Scores

Fill in how you would grade yourself from 1-4 in the following categories this module.

| Category                     | Score |
| -----------------------------| ----- |
| **Individual Projects**      |   3   |
| **Group Projects**           |   3   |
| **Professional Development** |   3   |
| **Community**                |   3   |
| **Pentathlon**               |   3   |
