Before Turing I received a bachelor’s degree in Economics from Indiana University but I didn’t have a clear direction for what I wanted to do afterwards. It was common for Econ grads to continue their education to get their master’s degree in Econ or a related business field. The problem was that many graduate programs funnel economists through a corporate tunnel that doesn’t align with the reason I studied economics in the first place. I’ve traveled all over the world and I’ve experienced the pitfalls of capitalism so continuing my career path in economics seemed like a dead end in a world where some universities are still saying that trickle-down works. It wasn’t encouraging to know that solving real world problems had endless barriers and red tape when attacking it from a policy side. But as a student it seemed as though there was a common factor in solving issues of inequality, human rights, and even healthcare. Technology and the internet level the playing field by offering opportunity to everyone. I realized I could make an impact on the world by using technology rather than policy. 


Technology and the internet solve real world problems by leveling the playing field and offering opportunities to learn. Education and the associated skills of higher learning are mostly responsible for wage gaps across the globe. This made me realize I could be a part of building the future of technology and be actively impacting the world everyday. Although I might end up with a job writing code to help a company sell mattresses online I can still work on open source projects like code for social good or teach myself how to write code for the blockchain which helps close the inequality gap in several ways also. I already have an opportunity to produce a web app for a non-profit in Colorado Springs and my experience at Turing has prepared me for that. I’m excited to contribute to the community around me as well as the world as whole.


Community was one of my favorite things about Turing. My view of technology aligns with Turing’s in the sense that software is a tool for change and being around people everyday that share the vision was how I was able to get up everyday and work my ass off to get through this program. After the initial feeling of completely drowning in mod 1 went away I was eager to figure out how I could contribute to the Turing community.

When I got to Turing my posse was a complete waste of time. Nobody was in charge and nobody even showed up. It was frustrating to find out some of my classmates loved their posse’s while I hardly had one to attend. Since I wasn’t getting any benefits from my posse time I joined Pahlka so I could interact with other students on projects outside of my current mod. The problem around Pahlka at the time was that we met during lunch on Friday’s which meant we lost 10-15 minutes immediately to people heating up their food. 

I took the lead on the front-end of a resource matching app in mod 2 and I was excited for an opportunity to collaborate with back end students. As each week went by it became apparent that making any actual progress on the app would go slowly. Meeting on Friday’s during lunch wasn’t enough time for everyone to come together and make decisions.

Our mod has always been pretty quiet and I found out early on that it was in my best interest to speak up anytime I had questions. It didn’t take long to feel like I was speaking up for the entire class and it felt like my mod would often turn to me for some leadership. I was nominated to join SAB and I was excited about the opportunity to contribute to the Turing community. 

In SAB I played a part in changing the posse dynamic. I pushed for interest based posse’s because I think the best thing students can do with that allowed time is to learn and build something they’re interested in with other people that share those interests. I hope that interest based posse’s grow and become successful for long after I’m gone so no student has my mod 1 experience of being alone during posse time without any knowledge of what they should be doing. 


Mod 4 is focused on node.js so building a fully functional backend would be my biggest achievement and also my biggest struggle. I say that because although I knew I would be getting introduced to the backend in mod 4, I didn’t realize the entire mod was focused on it. I really wanted to spend my time learning more about design and improving my front end skills so it was a personal struggle to devote so much time to repeatedly writing endpoints.  

Being exposed to the backend in this mod confirmed that I want to pursue a career in front end development and possibly UX.  

Looking back on my experience at Turing it becomes obvious that I was extremely motivated to learn. I came into Turing unsure of what an HTML tag was let alone a function. I even thought console.log was some kind of math function. In a short 7 months it’s safe to say I’ve mastered console.logs and I’ve also wrote some good functions. 

Looking back on my experience at Turing it becomes obvious that I was extremely motivated to learn. I came into Turing unsure of what an HTML tag was let alone a function. I even thought console.log was some kind of math function. In a short 7 months it’s safe to say I’ve mastered console.logs and I’ve also wrote some good functions. I’ve even wrote functions that take in other functions. 

I’ve come a long way and I’m proud of what I’ve accomplished in such a short amount of time. I learned that I’m capable of learning faster than I thought I could and I have the discipline to work hard and persevere. My biggest takeaway from Turing came from a lesson that Jeff Casimir gave on the process of web development. He said that the most important phase was the user experience because an app could exist that works extremely well but if the user experience is awful, nobody will ever use it anyway. That sparked my interest in design and user experience and as I move into my career I will place an emphasis on the user experience above all else.

Although I’m graduating I feel like I’m just going to be starting over to learn about UX/UI. I think that will reframe the way I think about my front end code much more than my experience with the backend has. I’m also looking forward to learning about the blockchain and the tangle which are both decentralized networks. Getting through Turing has shown me that I can learn anything and putting in the work to learn is the only barrier to accomplish anything.
