Before I came to Turing, I was really frustrated. I was working in an office at a wealth management company and I hated it. I was working in an office by myself, I was stressed all the time about messing something up, and I felt crappy because I wasn’t working my hardest. At the time I thought, this is it, this is what work is like. I’m going to have to spend everyday from 9 to 5 doing something like this. My parents noticed and kept pushing me to apply to new jobs, but I felt hopeless. I thought all jobs were going to be the same. I just didn’t have a passion and I was doomed to a life of passionless work.
	That’s when I came across computer programing and Turing. For the first time in a while, I felt excited.  I took a big risk, and used all my savings for tuition, flew across the country with 100 lb. worth of my stuff, signed my first lease, began attending classes a week later. These last four mods at Turing have been stress filled, frustrating, confusing, infuriating, and draining, but also the best 7 months of my life.

Each Mod has been very different, with it’s own unique challenges. Mod 4 really put my ability to juggle different tasks to the test… unfortunately they got about a C on the test. I’m able to juggle about 3 tasks at a time. Anything more than that, I have a hard time prioritizing and focusing on a task at hand. I tried to juggle job search, cold outreach, projects, homework assignments, interview prep, and keeping my apartment a reasonable state of messy. In the words of Lousia “This is too many things!!!”  I did good at keeping up with my projects. It was my top priority because I wanted to learn all I could while at Turing and I learn the most from building assigned projects. Job search took the number two spot and I managed to apply to some jobs during the mod and attend several meet ups. After that things kinda get a little fuzzy. Prioritizing is something I still haven’t master, but Mod 4 helped me bring this weakness to light and it’s something I hope I can keep working on. 

Palette Picker was a very difficult project for me because I had to create a backend and frontend, but also remember how to use jQuery (which I hadn’t used since Mod1). I ended up not getting it done in time which was really frustrating. However, the past three mods have prepared me for things like this. I took a day to be angry and frustrated, but quickly moved on to finishing the project. It also made me realize how quickly coding skills can erode and how important it will be for me to keep coding once I leave Turing and am looking for a job.

I’m really enjoyed being a SAB leader for the past two mods. It’s allowed me to practiced my leadership skills. During the first week of Mod 4, a majority of our class had a hard time with palette picker and were really frustrated. I had heard everyone complain about the project for the past week, however, when it came time to have retro, no one had anything to say. Although it made me uncomfortable to directly discuss my frustrations with the instructors, I brought up my thoughts with the instructors to kick off the conversations. I think it helped make people feel more comfortable opening up, not having to be the first one to speak. After the instructors left, I had to work with Jesse to take the classes angry criticisms and write actionable feedback for our instructors. It challenged me to listen to everyone’s grievence, but also keep in mind the perspective of the instructors. 

For my capstone, Maria and I created Colorado Governor Tracker, an application that allows users to search 2018 colorado governor candidates, view their campaign contributions, and see where the over $7 million in contributions is coming from. The hardest part of this project was handling the over 27,000 pieces of data. This is one of the first times I’ve had to deal with performance issues because the data takes so long to load. It became clear that I couldn’t loop over the contributions data in the way that I wanted to extrapolate different data, so I had to find different solutions outside of array prototypes. I’ve never deleted so much code during a project. I also used victor for the first time, a library that allows you to D3 in react applications. Learning new technologies takes me a while, but being able to tackle this in a tight time frame was a “victory” for me. But I really like how this project has come together. 

During the second to last week of Mod 4, we’ve been doing JavaScript Challenges to start the day and prepare for interviews. In Mod 1, I had a really hard time understanding object and array prototypes. Since then I have come so far. One of the challenges Robbie gave us was to create a function that checks to see iif all the brackets in the string were closed correctly. For example, when passed into the function “{[()]}” would return true while “{{)})” would return false. To solve it, I turned the string into an array, checked to see if the array’s length was an odd number, if it was, I would return false, knowing that if the brackets were closed correctly, each bracket would have a matching pair. I then split the array between the first half and second half and ran the revered second half through a map that took the braces and turned then around (so a left facing curly brace would now be a right facing curly brace. I joined the arrays back together and returned  first array is strictly equal to the second array. Although there is a problem with this solution, I’m really happy that I was able to come up with it after struggling with JavaScript challenges in mod 1 and 2. I think it shows how far I’ve come in the past 7 months.

I think what separates me from the rest of the class is my ability to laugh. At every single portfolio evolution my instructors have commented on how much I laugh and how they appreciate that I laugh at their jokes. Learning to code is hard. I don’t enjoy feeling like I don’t understand something, However, being able to laugh at myself and find joy in really hard lessons has helped me immensely as I’ve gone through Turing.

Overall what I’m taking away from Turing, is that it’s when we are uncomfortable that we grow the most. Getting though Turing hasn’t been easy. I’ve had to be in situations I’ve hated, like being between students and teachers, or going to the front of the class to explain redux, and having to code in front of my instructors.  I’ve been frustrated, cried over projects, and felt like giving up at times. But looking back, I’ve grown so much in the past 7 months and I’m so grateful for the experience. 

Thank you.

[30 day plan](https://gist.github.com/jdursema/aa8ec04f6a6f9d5d7275234b9cdd64dd.js)
