# Nate Venn - M4 Portfolio

### Your Mission
This module was all about me successfuly learning a new language and front end
frame work. I also wanted to make myself more available to mentor other students.

### Projects

#### Game Time
- [Repo](https://github.com/brennanholtzclaw/game_time)
- [Production](https://brennanholtzclaw.github.io/game_time/#)
- checkin one points: 50/50
- checkin two points: 50/50
- checkin three points: 50/50
- Evaluation points: 143/150

#### ScaleUp
- [Repo](https://github.com/LookingForMe/lookingForFrontEnd)
- [Production](https://looking-for.herokuapp.com/)
- Checkin one points: 150/150
- checkin two points: 150/150

### Feedback

#### Feedback received
- From Brennan: Nate Venn and I got to work together for the first time since Mod 2. He, Heidi,
and myself made up what can only be called the chillest Game Time group that's ever been formed.
That kind of sums up Nate, too. He is the most relaxed person I know that can work at 110% for
a week straight with the only outward sign being some rugged 5 o'clock shadow. He's a great font
of knowledge and always seems to know the syntax that you're trying to figure out. He does an
amazing job of looking at foreign code and quickly understanding not only what it does, but
ways that it could be improved. I was frequently floored during Game Time when he would take
a look at our complicated request animation loop and just to put new pieces without breaking anything.
If you get a chance to work with the most relaxed person in the basement, take it. It's a delight.

- From Kimi: Nate took on two big tasks for LookingFor, testing the React components and pushing the app
to production, both concepts that he had to do a lot of his own research on, as we hadn't learned how to
test React components and getting the app into production required unique configurations that we hadn't
dealt with yet. I was very impressed by how willing he was to challenge himself with taking on these tasks!
Nate also has a super chill attitude and is really easy to work with, so he'll be an awesome addition to any team.

- From Heidi: Within the last 6 weeks, I was privileged to work with Nate on two team projects and both times was
impressed with his reliability, solid code, and quickness to dig down into new technologies. Besides his technical
skills, Nate was also a pleasure to work with personally, having a chill personality that will mesh in any workplace.
He supports his teammates and ships good code, at the same time.

#### Feedback given
- To Brennan: What impressed me most about Brennan, other than being a stand up guy, is that
he was never afraid of tackling the hardest aspects of a project. For
instance during Game Time he worked on calculating the ball to putter angle. Im
pretty sure he isnt a mathematician but yet he successfuly accomplished complex
calculations, like trigonometry. Then during Scale Up he tackled Elastic Search
by himself, and he pretty much crushed it. I have no doubt this man is going to
be a great developer and asset to any company. On top of his technical skills
Brennan is easy to work with and fun to be around.

- To Heidi: Heidi is such an inspiration to me and our entire cohort. I dont know how she
can get so much accomplished in one day. She produces quality code, is
constantly answering questions on slack, mentoring other students, organizing
events, and runs a posse. Not to mention she has a full time job of being a
parent. Heidi inspires me to do more and be better. Before our Game Time
partners we anounced I said to myself that I really wanted to get a chance to
work with Heidi. And as fate would have it, that wish came true. Heidi is one of the
hardest working partners that I have had at Turing, and the smartest. She can
figure and reason with just about any problem. She also really cares about her
teammates and their wellbeing. I continually touched by her kindness and strength.

- To Kimi: Kimi has been someone that I have wanted to work with since mod one. Everybody
that has worked with her had nothing but great things to say. She is always
smiling and giggling and I find that so comforting. I also knew she had a drive
to do her best and work collaboratively with her teammates. Finally, our last project at turing, I
was fortunate enough to work with her on Scale Up. Its always a fun time when you are working with
Kimi. I would mention more about her technical skills but I think we all know how talented and smart
she is. The one thing I will mention, is her amazing ability to pay attention to detail and give some
of the best comments and feedback on code. Kimi is going to be an invaluable addition to any team.

### Community participation
- Bring in recycling every wednesday
- Paired with Sonia once and Chad several times thoughout the module on
  JavaScript
- Went to two Denver.rb meetups to support Erinna and Adam
- Faciliated two gearup discussions on Agism in Tech.
- weekly meditations with Adam Coran

# Portfolio Rubric

* A: End-of-Module Assessment: N/A
* B: Individual Work & Projects: 3
* C: Group Work & Projects: 4
* D: Community Participation: 4++
* E: Peer & Instructor Feedback: 3

#### self evaluation

## A: End-of-Module Assessment

N/A

## B: Individual Work & Projects

* **4: Student demonstrates commitment and growth in their work through satisfactory
evaluations of each project or a clearly upward-sloping trend.**

## C: Group Work & Projects

* **4: Student consistently helps their teammates be their best selves, learn at
an accelerated pace, and achieve great results.**

## D: Community Participation

* **3: Student participates in required activities and does at least one or two
above-and-beyond supports of the community.**

## E: Peer & Instructor Feedback

* **4: Student gives meaningful impact to peers as well as being aware of themes
in the feedback they receive.

## Notes

## Outcomes

GRADUATED!

* A: End-of-Module Assessment: N/A
* B: Individual Work & Projects: 3
* C: Group Work & Projects: 3
* D: Community Participation: 3
* E: Peer & Instructor Feedback: 3
