# (Matt Renn) - (M1 FE) Portfolio

## Areas of Emphasis

I had no real goals or expectations of myself going in to this mod. I knew it would be the toughest challenge of my life; that much was true. I went in unsure of my capability, and I balked. By Thursday of week one I started thinking I would need to send an email to my old employer and drop out. Thanks to Friday's gear up, my instructors reaching out, and mentors helping me strategize I stayed. By week three it was clear that I would be joining 1708. I kept trying to learn, but also kept slacking. No more of that shit. 1708 is my chance to embrace a growth mindset. I have never felt more excited to challenge myself and grow, not only as a developer but as a person.

## Rubric Scores

* **A: End-of-Module Assessment**: X
* **B: Individual Work & Projects**: X
* **C: Group Work & Projects**: X
* **D: Professional Skills**: X
* **E: Community Participation**: X

-----------------------

## A: End of Module Assessment

First
Attempt
In
Learing


## B: Individual Work & Projects

Number Guesser
DNF
Sadness

Static Comp 1
DNF
Sadness

Static Comp 2
DNF
Sadness

Static Comp 3
DNF
Sadness

## C: Group Work & Projects

#### (Linked List)

* [GitHub URL](https://github.com/AdamMescher/linked-list)
* [Original Assignment](http://frontend.turing.io/projects/linked-list.html)

Applying javascript for the first time. Pairing for the first time. Lots of firsts for me. It was tough but rewarding.

(evaluation comments)

(evaluation scores)

#### (IdeaBox)

* [https://github.com/Vision-X/idea-box]

IdeaBox was a great way to learn localStorage and the basics of JSON.

HTML
* Accesibility: Novice
* Style: Novice

CSS
* Structure of Code: Advanced Begginer
* Implementation: Proficient

JAVASCRIPT
* Data Types: Proficient
* Conditional Logic: Proficient
* Functions & Scope: Proficient
* Arrays: Proficient
* Objects & Prototypes: Proficient
* DOM Manipulation: Proficient
* Style: Advanced Begginer

GIT & GITHUB
* Git: Novice
* GitHub: Novice

DESIGN
* Comp Recreation: Novice

PAIRING
* Collaboration: Novice

## D: Professional Skills

### Gear Up

* [GitHub URL]()

## E: Community Participation

### Playing a Part

I didn't expect to connect with my cohort like I did. The way we reach out and help each other or just joke around makes the experience here incredible. I felt reluctant to engage with upper mods and staff until later in the mod. When I started attending imposters and having lunch with members of my cohort, I gained a sense of belonging in a community from which I had alienated myself. I look forward to engaging and deepening my connection to the Turing community. 

## Final Review

### Notes

( Leave blanks for reviewers )

### Outcome

( Leave blanks for reviewers )
