# Alex Bonder - M4 Portfolio

## [Presentation Slide Deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1KyTmXUmVqt2sBNrrVhBWsMsUFXLtwRyqD8HurM-a994/edit#slide=id.g38a76611f0_2_12)

## [30 Day Plan](https://gist.github.com/lexbonder/0616073c3b59aa134e27ae35cd81d530)

## Pre-Turing - Mod 3

Before Turing I didn’t care about who I worked for or what I did. I never had a passion for my career. I was working in retail at Verizon Wireless. All I wanted leaving retail was to get away from customers, and to get weekends and evenings back. I chose software engineering because I’m good with technology, I’m good with puzzles, I have a logical mind, and I like to build things. I wasn’t running toward software development as much as I was running away from retail.

I heard about Turing from my cousin who went to Hungry Academy. I happened to have a weekend off the same time as a Try Coding event so I took a trip out to Colorado. On top of that, the cohort I chose started the same week my last lease ended. I’m not highly superstitious, or religious, but sometimes even coincidences are a little too obvious to not read in to. Intermission between mods 1-2, My niece was born. Intermission between Mods 2-3 was the week my half marathon happened. Nothing needed to be rescheduled or moved, I didn’t have to miss any school. Everything fell into place. All signs pointed to Turing being the right choice.

## Mod 4

The intermission between Mods 3-4, was eye opening. I just finished the first iteration my personal project and was preparing it for Demo Comp. The thrill of bringing my first app from concept to creation filled me with excitement. I took a trip to New York to do some networking. I met people who were also looking for jobs. I noticed the culture was completely different. They sounded so pessimistic. They'd say things like “Employers don’t want junior devs”, “All the jobs are front/back end”, and “There’s too much competition out there”. Their mindset is completely opposite of what is taught at turing. This was the first time I felt like I was the person who was passionate about coding.

I know I can find a job within 30 days if I follow the turing plan, but I still don't know what kind of job I want. I LOVED making my app. I'm still Thinking about all the ways I want to improve it. But I knew in order to succeed in the industry as a junior dev I needed to find a job where I can hone my skills even further.

I came back and started Mod 4 full force. I had the unique challenge of having to juggle preparing for Demo Comp, drafting my resume and cover letter, and handling the first week of backend projects. It was very stressful, but the stress was exhilarating. I loved juggling all of that work. I described it as the best kind of problem to have.

After Demo Comp, things settled down and I was able to focus on learning backend. I learned Node.js very quickly while facing very little sadness. What it confirmed for me is that the turing process works. I learned how to learn. If I can pick up Node.js and Express this quickly, I can learn anything. Mod 4 taught me that whatever job I get, I’ll be able to pick up their tech stack with relative ease.

What really helped me find my passion was the group project BYOB. My partner, Nora, chose the topic. We made a backend that organized historical buildings in their respective districts. I’m not big on history and I have minimal interest in historical buildings. I had no interest in the topic for the app we were building. But I found that I didn't lose any interest in writing the code. As I was writing the code, solving the problems, writing the tests. I was fully engaged. I still felt a passion for making the app work. I This project made me realize that it’s not about the topic, or the project. I love coding. I found my passion. I get so much excitement and satisfaction through code. This project taught me that I can really work anywhere. Of course I will enjoy a job where I like the topic more than one where I'm not interested. Turing has prepared me for my first job. There's plenty of time between now and my last job. Having found my passion means I'm going to enjoy every job I find between my first and last jobs.

The final assessment in mod 4 was a big milestone for me as well. In mod 3 I tripped up on the testing and it was devastating. The mod 4 final went very smoothly and showed me that I've improved even since then, which was only 5 weeks prior.

But of course, with any good story, there’s an act 2. Near the end of Mod 4 we were finishing up our capstone and trying to get it deployed to Heroku, via Travis CI. Nothing I tried worked. At first I was handling it pretty well. I knew that it is ok to not know how to do something as long as you can figure it out. But after 2-3 days, I wasn't able to figure it out. It became very overwhelming and then everything snowballed. I started worrying that if I can’t figure this out, how can I confidently say I’m good at this? I asked myself what does it mean if I can’t figure out this deployment? I’ve done this school thing. I was a film major, I don’t work in film. I went to bartending school, I’m not a bartender. I took an IT course, I don’t work in IT. I started worrying that this is just going to follow the same path. I went to other students, mentors, teachers, and google and I still couldn’t get it. I felt defeated.

After a long walk and a talk it was brought to my attention that I was actually doing it right the whole time. I didn’t know what to do, So I tried to figure it out. I couldn’t figure it out, So I asked for help. I used my humans. And THAT is just as much a part of coding as solving code problems. At the end of it all. We DID get the site deployed. This near breakdown taught me that my instincts guided me in the right direction. Mod 4 taught me that I do know what I’m doing. Every challenge, every victory, and every wave of overwhelming stress is all part of software development.

The failures. The stress. Those are all Temporary. But every passed test. Every completed project. Every puzzle that I solve. It makes it all worth it. I can’t even count the times at turing that I’ve stayed up all night coding. Not tired, not stressed just so into the code.

## The Not-so-distant Future

In my next job, and every job after that, I’m going to bring my passion with me. Turing taught me that I can love what I do for a living. I worked 80 Hours a week for 7 months. I can do whatever it takes to get a job I love and succeed in it. But I know I have to do the work. Things won’t just happen. I also know that I’m going to fail. Probably often. But every time I fail I’m going to come back stronger. And I’m going to be victorious eventually. The only true failure is giving up. The best gift I got from turing is the ability to say that I love what I do. I’ve never been able to say it before, and Technically I can’t say it yet because i’m currently unemployed. But I’m about to find a job where I love what I do. Turing taught me that not only is this kind of life possible. It also taught me how to make it happen. I can’t explain how excited I am for the next step.
